SUBPART A. CHARTER[1]
An Act to create a new charter for the Town of Thunderbolt; to prescribe the corporate limits of said town; to provide for the government of said town and its corporate powers; to provide for the governing authority of said town and for the election, terms of office and powers and duties of the members thereof; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to repeal specific Acts; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1178), page 3269. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings catchlines has been used.

Section 1. - Incorporation.
This Act shall constitute a new charter for the Town of Thunderbolt (hereinafter at times referred to as the "town") repealing and replacing the provisions of an Act revising and consolidating the several Acts relating to and incorporating the Town of Warsaw in Chatham County and changing the name of said town to the Town of Thunderbolt, approved July 21, 1921 (Ga. L. 1921, p. 1122), as amended by an Act approved August 11, 1927 (Ga. L. 1927, p. 1673), an Act approved December 14, 1937 (Ga. L. 1937-38, Ex. Sess., p. 1355), an Act approved January 30, 1946 (Ga. L. 1946, p. 621), an Act approved February 16, 1950 (Ga. L. 1950, p. 2618), an Act approved February 17, 1950 (Ga. L. 1950, p. 2670), an Act approved February 8, 1951 (Ga. L. 1951, p. 2293), an Act approved February 15, 1952 (Ga. L. 1952, p. 2832), an Act approved March 6, 1956 (Ga. L. 1956, p. 3091), an Act approved March 17, 1958 (Ga. L. 1958, p. 2617), an Act approved March 2, 1959 (Ga. L. 1959, p. 2109), an Act approved March 7, 1960 (Ga. L. 1960, p. 2273), an Act approved March 7, 1960 (Ga. L. 1960, p. 2277), an Act approved March 3, 1962 (Ga. L. 1962, p. 2955), an Act approved March 2, 1966 (Ga. L. 1966, p. 2883), and by an Act approved February 6, 1970 (Ga. L. 1970, p. 2018). The Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia, in the County of Chatham, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia. Under that name, said town shall continue to be vested with all the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall be liable and responsible as a corporate body for all legal debts, contracts and obligations which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Section 2. - Corporate Boundaries.
(a)
The corporate limits of the town shall be described as follows:
Beginning at a point where an eastern projection of the southern right-of-way line of College Avenue, through the marsh, would intersect the low water mark of Williamson Creek; thence in a northwesterly direction along said projection of the southern right-of-way line of College Avenue, through the marsh and across the upper end of Williamson Creek to high land; thence continuing along the southern right-of-way line of College Avenue to its intersection with College Street (which runs north and south); thence along a line being a western projection of the southern right-of-way line of College Avenue through lands of Savannah State College to the center line of an old abandoned car line right-of-way; thence southwesterly along said center line of the abandoned car line right-of-way to a line which is an easterly projection of the southern line of Lot 35, Placentia Tract to the eastern right-of-way line of Whatley Avenue; thence in a northerly direction along the eastern right-of-way line of Whatley Avenue to its intersection with the northern right-of-way line of Thunderbolt Shell Road; thence in a westerly direction along said northern right-of-way line of Thunderbolt Shell Road to the southwest corner of Lot 23 of a re-subdivision of a portion of Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 2; thence along the western boundary of said Re-subdivision of Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 2 in a northerly direction to the northeast corner of La Pantoville Subdivision; thence along the northern boundary line of La Pantoville Subdivision in a westerly direction to the eastern right-of-way line of Shuptrine Avenue to its intersection with the southern right-of-way line of Victory Drive; thence in an easterly direction along the southern right-of-way line of Victory Drive to the intersection of said right-of-way line of Victory Drive and a southerly projection of the western right-of-way line of Levy Avenue; thence in a northerly direction along said projection of the western right-of-way line of Levy Avenue to the northern right-of-way line of Bonaventure Road; thence in an easterly direction along said northern right-of-way line of Bonaventure Road to the easterly right-of-way line of Bonaventure Road as it turns at the entrance to Bonaventure Cemetery; thence in a southerly direction along said eastern right-of-way line of Bonaventure Road to its intersection with the northern line of Lot 19, Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 6; thence along said northern line of said Lot 19 and a projection of same in an easterly direction to the easterly right-of-way line of the old Savannah Electric and Power Company right-of-way line; thence in a southerly direction along said eastern right-of-way line of the old Savannah Electric and Power Company right-of-way to its intersection with the common line between Lots 17 and 18 of the Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 6; thence along said common line between lots 17 and 18 in an easterly direction of the eastern right-of-way line of an un-named street which runs north and south between Lots 18 and 14 of Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 6; thence along said eastern right-of-way line of said un-named street in a southerly direction to its intersection with the common line between Lots 14 and 15, Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 6; thence in a westerly direction along said common line between said Lots 14 and 15 to its intersection with the eastern right-of-way line of the old Savannah Electric and Power Company right-of-way; thence in a southerly direction along said eastern right-of-way of the old Savannah Electric and Power Company right-of-way to its intersection with the common line between Lots 10 and 11, Merchants and Mechanics Subdivision No. 6; thence in an easterly direction along said common line of said Lots 10 and 11 to the marsh and continuing on projection of said common line between said Lots 10 and 11 to the eastern high water mark of the Wilmington River; thence following the said high water mark of the Wilmington River in a southerly and easterly direction to a point opposite the confluence of Williamson Creek and the Wilmington River; thence in a southwesterly direction across the Wilmington River to the northerly low water mark of Williamson Creek at its confluence with the Wilmington River; thence in generally westerly direction along said low water mark of Williamson Creek to a point where said Williamson Creek intersects with the easterly projection of the Southern right-of-way line of College Avenue, said point being the point of beginning.
(b)
The corporate limits shall further include:
All that certain area and territory described and known upon the map of Chatham County, Georgia, as Macceo Island (Isle of Armstrong), 5th G.M. District, Chatham County, Georgia; said island being bounded on the North by marshland and the Wilmington River, on the East by marshland and by Gray's Creek; on the South by the marshland and by Gray's Creek, and on the West by the Town of Thunderbolt, the Wilmington River, a tidal basin and by marshland.
(c)
The corporate limits shall further include:
Beginning at the intersection of the southern right-of-way line of Sunset Boulevard and the centerline of the Placentia Canal; thence in a northerly direction along the centerline of the Placentia Canal to its intersection with the town limits of the Town of Thunderbolt; thence in an easterly direction along the Thunderbolt town limits to its intersection with the centerline of Whatley Avenue; thence in a southerly direction along the centerline of Whatley Avenue to its intersection with the northern right-of-way line of Tompkins Road; thence in a westerly direction along the northern right-of-way line of Tompkins Road to a point of 450 feet east of its intersection with the centerline of the Placentia Canal (said point is also located on the eastern property line of a 3.0/- acre tract of land belonging to Savannah State College); thence in a northerly direction along a line perpendicular to the centerline of Tompkins Road for a distance of approximately 290 feet to a point (said line following the eastern property line of a 3.0/- acre tract of land belonging to Savannah State College); thence in a westerly direction along a line parallel to and 121 feet south of the southern right-of-way line of Warsaw Place (said line following the northern property line of a 3.0/- acre tract of land belonging to Savannah State College), to its intersection with the centerline of the Placentia Canal; thence in a northerly direction along the centerline of the Placentia Canal to its intersection with the southern right-of-way line of Sunset Boulevard, said point being the point of beginning."
(1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1035), page 3653, §§ 1, 2; 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 114), page 4054, § 1; Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 3. - Existing Ordinances, Rules and Terms of Office.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the Town of Thunderbolt not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified or amended by the town council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the town not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified or amended. Existing terms of office of elected officials of said town shall continue until the first officials elected under this charter have taken office. Existing elected officials shall continue to draw, until the expiration of their current respective terms of office, the same salaries and expenses or other compensation that each of them respectively drew or were entitled to draw for their municipal services immediately prior to the enactment of this Act, and their respective salaries or other compensations shall be as determined by the council.
Section 4. - Establishment of Town Government.
(a)
The municipal government of the Town of Thunderbolt shall be vested in a mayor and six aldermen, known as the 'town council.' On the third Tuesday in October, 1974, and on that same date biennially thereafter, there shall be held an election at which a mayor and six aldermen shall be elected for the Town of Thunderbolt. Those candidates elected to office in the 1974 election shall not take office until the expiration of the terms of office of the incumbent officers and, upon taking office, they shall serve until November 2, 1976, and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Thereafter, all successors to the municipal offices of the Town of Thunderbolt shall take office on the second Tuesday following their election and shall serve for a term of office of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(b)
All elections held for the purpose of filling municipal offices in the Town of Thunderbolt shall be nonpartisan, and no political party shall conduct primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates for such municipal elections.
(c)
To be eligible for election and to hold at any time the office of mayor or alderman, a person shall be at least 18 years of age, shall have resided in the Town of Thunderbolt for a period of one year immediately preceding the election, and shall be duly registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the town and of the State of Georgia. Qualification of candidates for municipal office shall begin at 9:00 A.M. on the forty-fifth day before the general election and shall close at 5:00 P.M. on the thirtieth day before the general election, and shall begin at 9:00 A.M. on the thirtieth day before a special election and close at 5:00 P.M. on the tenth day before such special election. Any person serving in office may be a candidate to succeed himself. Candidates for the six offices of alderman shall not designate any post, but all such candidates shall run for the 'office of alderman.'
(d)
A qualification fee for the office of mayor or alderman shall be paid by each candidate who desires to qualify for said office, said fees being as follows:
(1)
For the office of mayor: Three percent of salary.
(2)
For the office of alderman: Three percent of salary.
Said fees shall be paid to the town and used by the mayor and aldermen to defray election expenses.
(e)
Each elector of the town shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for mayor and six candidates for alderman. The candidate receiving the highest number of votes for mayor shall be elected mayor. The six candidates receiving the highest number of votes cast for the office of alderman shall be elected as the six aldermen of the Town of Thunderbolt.
(f)
The mayor and aldermen shall be installed in office by taking and subscribing the following oath:
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties devolved upon me as mayor or alderman, as the case may be, of the Town of Thunderbolt; that I will faithfully execute and enforce the laws of said town to the best of my ability, skill, and knowledge; and that I will do all in my power to promote the general welfare of the inhabitants of said town and common interest thereof.
(g)
The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the Town of Thunderbolt as to special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 221), page 4213, § 1; Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 5. - Mayor; Powers; Compensation.
(a)
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the town council;
(2)
Be the head of the town for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes and be the official spokesperson for the town and the chief advocate of policy;
(3)
Have power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(4)
Sign on behalf of the town all written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the town which by law are required to be in writing; and
(5)
Fulfill such other executive and administrative duties as the town council shall establish by ordinance.
(b)
The salary of the mayor and the time and method of payment shall be fixed by the town council, but said salary shall not exceed $2,400.00 per year.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 222), page 4218, § 1; 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 200), page 3193, § 1)
Section 6. - Town Council; Powers; Compensation; Mayor Pro Tempore.
The town council shall be the legislative body of the municipality and it shall pass all ordinances and do all things pursuant to the authority herein given. It shall fix an annual budget for the town and approve all expenditures made by the town, and it shall fix the compensation for all town employees and officials. The salary of each alderman and the time and method of payment shall be fixed by the said town council, but said salary of each alderman shall not exceed $900.00 per year. The town council shall meet in regular session at such times as it shall determine but not less frequently than once in each calendar month. Special meetings of the council may be called at any time by the mayor or, in the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore, or by a majority of the elected members of the council. A quorum of the council shall consist of either three aldermen and the mayor or four aldermen. All actions by the council shall be governed by a majority vote of such elected officials. The mayor shall have the right to vote upon all questions before said council for determination. At the first regular meeting of the town council following a regular election of a mayor and aldermen or as soon thereafter as practicable, the council shall select one of its members as mayor pro tempore who shall, in the event of the absence, disability or disqualification of the mayor, perform all duties and exercise all rights, powers and privileges of the office of mayor.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 222), page 4218, § 2)
Section 7. - Office of clerk and ex officio treasurer abolished; transfer of duties and powers.
The town council shall appoint a town clerk. The person so appointed shall not be a member of the council. The town clerk shall be the custodian of the official town seal, shall maintain the records of the town, and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the council. The town clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the council and the compensation of the town clerk shall be fixed by the council.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 221), page 4213, § 2; 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 200), page 4193, § 2)
Section 7.1. - Reserved.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 200), page 4193, § 3; 1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 247), page 4707, § 1)
Section 8. - Vacancies in office.
A vacancy occurring in the office of mayor shall be filled by the mayor pro tempore as provided in Section 6, and the vacancy shall therefore transfer to the office of alderman. Any vacancy occurring in the office of alderman shall be filled for the unexpired term by a majority vote of the remaining aldermen and mayor within 15 days of the occurrence of such vacancy. If the council fails to fill such vacancy within the time specified, provided that the remaining portion of said unexpired term is longer than six months, the council shall at once set the date for a special town election to be held within 30 days, which shall be held and managed in the same manner as herein provided for town elections and at which a successor for the unexpired term shall be elected. If after 15 days from the date of such vacancy the council has failed to fill such vacancy and provided that the remaining portion of said unexpired term is less than six months, said office of alderman shall remain vacant until the next regular town election. Any vacancy which might exist at the time of the effective date of this Act shall be treated as if it occurred on the day after such effective date; provided, however, this shall not alter any prior provisions for filling said vacancy, which provisions would cause the vacancy to be filled at an earlier date.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 221), page 4213, § 3; Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 9. - Municipal elections.
(a)
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under State law who has been a bona fide resident of the Town of Thunderbolt for 90 days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote or for such period as may otherwise be provided by the Georgia Municipal Election Code shall be qualified to register as an elector in any town election held under this charter.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the election of all officials of the Town of Thunderbolt, where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by the Election Code is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that the time periods provided herein will be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this charter and the general laws of the State.
(c)
The polls shall be opened from 7:00 o'clock a.m. local time to 7:00 o'clock p.m. local time.
(d)
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice as required by law; provided, however, any change in polling places shall be effected as provided by Section 34A-604 of the Code of Georgia of 1933 as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
(e)
In all elections held in the Town of Thunderbolt, whether special or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(f)
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
(g)
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this State shall be made by the mayor and council.
(h)
The mayor and council, at its discretion, is authorized to provide by ordinance for absentee ballots for any town election.
( Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 10. - Powers defined.
(a)
The government of the Town of Thunderbolt shall have all rights, powers, privileges and authority herein conferred or herein enlarged and such other powers as may be necessary or desirable including all rights, powers, privileges and authority, whether expressed or implied, that may now or hereafter be granted to municipal corporations by the Constitution of Georgia and laws of this State.
(b)
The rights, powers, privileges and authority heretofore enjoyed, herein retained or herein claimed shall subsist, notwithstanding the repeal of any law, until any such right, power, privilege or authority be altered or taken away by amendment to this charter.
(c)
In addition to the rights, powers, privileges and authority expressly conferred upon it by this charter, the town shall have the right, power, privilege and authority to exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals and general welfare of said government and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to do and perform all of the acts pertaining to its local affairs, property and government which are necessary or proper in the legitimate exercise of its corporate powers and governmental functions.
(d)
No enumeration of any right, power, privilege or authority hereinafter made and no repeal of any law under which the government derives any rights, power, privilege or authority shall be construed as limiting or abolishing any right, power, privilege or authority hereinabove set forth.
(e)
The corporate powers of the government of the Town of Thunderbolt, to be exercised by the mayor and town council, shall, without limiting the foregoing, include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation and collection of taxes on property as provided herein;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the town, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the town
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the town and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the town;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the town and the general welfare of its citizens on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the town, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the mayor and town council under Title 36 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, as now or hereafter amended, or under other applicable Public Acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced. For such services rendered, the town shall have a lien against the property served by such utilities and services, and said lien shall run from the date the contract is made or the services commence until such time as all charges therefor shall have been paid in full;
(9)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services not to exceed periods of 20 years and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of; abandon or close; construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the town;
(11)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports and hospitals; and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the town; and to regulate the use thereof. For such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 36 of the Code Georgia of 1933, as now or hereafter amended, or other applicable Public Acts as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating and air conditioning codes; to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license all building trades; and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures;
(15)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots and public disturbances;
(16)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; to regulate and control pawn shops, the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors and the use and sale of firearms; and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(17)
To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions and shows of any kind whatever by taxation or otherwise;
(18)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof or within or abutting the corporate limits of the town and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(19)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(20)
To prescribe and fix the fiscal year of the town;
(21)
To employ an accountant to examine and audit the books and records of the town and the departments and agencies and employees thereof, relative to the financial affairs of the town, when and as often as the town council shall consider proper. The town council shall fix the compensation of such accountant;
(22)
To regulate the subdivision of land in the town by requiring and regulating the preparation and presentation of preliminary plats; by establishing minimum improvements to be made or to be guaranteed to be made by the subdivider; by setting forth the procedure to be followed by the planning commission in applying rules, regulations and standards; and by providing for penalties for violation of such rules, regulations and standards;
(23)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(24)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(25)
To levy, fix, assess and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the town from all individuals, firms and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(26)
To levy a fee, charge or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service charge, fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(27)
To charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees and to charge the same from time to time, such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(28)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the town and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(29)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(30)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the town and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(31)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building, construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the town; and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(32)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the town or to provide for commitment of such persons to the town jail or any county correctional institution or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(33)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of disorderly conduct, public drunkenness and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the town; to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein; and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct and activities within said town which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this State, are deemed by the mayor and town council to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the town or to the welfare of the citizens thereof;
(34)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for their disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of any ordinance enacted hereunder;
(35)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the town;
(36)
To enact appropriate ordinances to require hotels, motels, bath house proprietors, rooming houses and other like or similar commercial establishments within the town which cater to the public to furnish lifeguards for the bathing beaches and/or swimming pools so as to provide safety and protection for bathers;
(37)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the town;
(38)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments against abutting property for paving, curbing and guttering streets, paving sidewalks, installing drainage systems and any other public improvements;
(39)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(40)
To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the town and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(41)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the town and the inhabitants thereof and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the town;
(42)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(43)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(44)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the town and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the town;
(45)
To establish, staff, maintain and equip an ambulance service, marine rescue squadron, civil defense unit and a lifeguard unit to operate and function jointly with the police department;
(46)
To regulate and license weights and measures.
( Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 11. - Construction.
The powers of the town shall be construed liberally and in favor of the town. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the town as stated in this charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the town full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the town and all of its affairs.
Section 12. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the town and its officers, agencies or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the mayor and town council and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 13. - Taxation.
(a)
For the purpose of raising revenues for the support, maintenance and operation of the government of the town including the payments of bonds, interest on bonded debts and creation of a sinking fund for the final extinguishment of bonded debts, the town council, as the government authority of the town, shall have power and authority to assess, levy and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property owned or held within the corporate limits of the town which, under the laws of Georgia, is subject to taxation not exceeding ten mills, or five mills upon the assessed value of all such property.
(b)
The town council shall have the authority to determine and assess the taxable value of all property in the town subject to taxation
(c)
The town council is granted authority to provide by ordinance for the returning or reporting of all property subject to taxation by the town and to require all persons owning such property to file a written statement and description of such property and its fair market value under oath.
(d)
The town council shall have the authority to provide forms upon which real and personal properties shall be returned for taxation and shall by ordinance fix the time, place and manner of returning or reporting property for municipal taxation.
(e)
In the event any person required to return or report property for taxation shall fail to do so within the time and in the manner required by ordinance, the tax commissioner or such other official as the town council may designate for such purpose is authorized to return for taxes such omitted property at its true market value, plus penalty.
(f)
The town council may prescribe by ordinance a penalty for failure to make the return or the report of property for taxation within the time prescribed; provided, however, such penalties shall not exceed 25 percent of the tax owed on such property, and such penalty so provided and fixed shall be a lien upon the property of the taxpayer who defaulted in making the return as required and shall be collected in the same manner as other municipal taxes.
(g)
The town council, as the governing authority of the town, is granted power and authority to prescribe by ordinance the time, place and manner at and in which taxes owed to the town shall be paid, to whom taxes shall be paid, to allow a discount in the sole discretion of the council for payment of taxes before maturity, and to provide a penalty in an amount not exceeding ten percent of the tax owed for failure to pay taxes within the time as the town council shall require by ordinance.
(h)
The town council is granted power and authority to collect ad valorem taxes owed to the town by issuance of execution against the property so assessed and the owner thereof, and the tax assessed as ad valorem against any property in the town shall be a lien on the property assessed for taxation.
Section 14. - Special assessment.
The town council, as the governing authority of the town, shall have power to levy, impose and collect, in addition to the mills provided for in section 13(a) of this charter, a special tax on the total value of the assessment of all real and personal property on the books of the municipality, beginning with the fiscal year of the town first following the date of enactment hereof, for purposes of construction, maintenance and repair of the following: (1) street paving, (2) collection and disposal of garbage, and (3) sewerage and pollution. Such special tax shall not be imposed for longer than one fiscal year at the time, but may be renewed annually if so required, and shall not exceed a collective total of a maximum of ten mills whether imposed for one, for more than one, or for all five of the specific purposes stated. In all cases where it shall be necessary to levy a special additional tax for any one or more of the purposes stated in this section, the levy and assessment of the same for each such purpose shall be separately made and collected and all amounts so collected shall be applied exclusively to said maintenance and expense for which the said tax is levied and collected.
Section 15. - Use of streets, taxation.
The town council, as the governing authority of the town, shall have full power and authority and is hereby empowered to assess and levy taxes and licenses for the use of the streets, lanes and sidewalks of the Town of Thunderbolt for business purposes, and no person, firm or corporation shall have the right to use the streets of the Town of Thunderbolt for business purposes without first having obtained the consent and license of the town council.
Section 16. - Board of tax appeals.
The town council shall create by ordinance and appoint members of a board of tax appeals which will review on written appeal of the taxpayer, and adjust if deemed proper, the assessment that shall be fixed by the tax official of the town with respect to taxable property. Failing to appoint such board, the town council as a whole shall serve as the board of tax appeals in the town. The town council shall by ordinance prescribe such other rules, regulations and procedures with respect to appeals on tax matters as the council shall deem necessary.
Section 17. - Bonds.
(a)
The town council shall have the power and authority to issue bonds of said Town of Thunderbolt at such times as it sees proper, within the limits provided by the Constitution of Georgia and of such denomination and in such amounts as it sees proper. Said bonds shall not bear interest in excess of eight percent per annum and shall not run for a period of longer than 30 years from date of issue but may bear a less rate of interest and run for a shorter period of time from the date of their issue in the discretion of the town council. Said bonds shall be issued, hypothecated and sold for the purpose of establishing and maintaining, equipping, extending, operating and repairing a system of waterworks; a system of sanitary sewerage; a crematory; a system of streets lights, either gas or electric or both; a system of public schools; paving or macadamizing streets or sidewalks; erection of necessary public buildings; and an adequate fire department, a hospital and drainage. Bonds will be attested by the person designated by the mayor and council of Thunderbolt under the corporate seal of said Town of Thunderbolt and shall be negotiated in a manner determined by said town council to be in the best interest of said town; provided, however, said bonds shall not be issued for any of the above purposes until the same shall have been submitted to the qualified voters at an election held for that purpose, under and in conformity with the general laws of the State governing the issuance of bonds by a municipal corporation.
(b)
The town council shall have power and authority to order elections at various times to determine the issuance of bonds in accordance with general elections in said town at such time or times as it deems best for the purpose of issuing bonds for the improvements designated in this Act.
Said town council shall provide how said public debt may be paid and shall constitute a sinking fund for said purpose.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 221), page 4213, § 4)
Section 18. - Revenue-producing projects.
Said town, by and through its town council, shall have full power and authority to acquire, construct, reconstruct, improve and extend revenue-producing projects and systems; to maintain and operate the same; to prescribe, revise, fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities and commodities furnished thereby; and, in anticipation of the collection of revenues therefrom, to issue negotiable certificates payable solely from such revenues, to finance the cost of construction and operation of same, and to exercise all the powers and authorities to do all the things and acts authorized by the "Revenue Anticipation Law of 1937" of this State and Acts amendatory thereof.
Section 19. - Zoning.
The Town of Thunderbolt may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the town for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings or other uses of property; for the purpose of regulating the height of the buildings, fences or other structures or the area of dimensions of lots or of the yards used in connection with buildings or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon one or more of the purposes above described. The town may be divided into such number of zones or districts and such districts may be of such shape and area as the town council shall deem best suited to accomplish the purpose of the zoning regulations. In the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classification may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises; the number of persons, families or other group units to reside in or use buildings; the public, quasi-public or private nature of the use of the premises; or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, prosperity or welfare. The town council may provide by ordinance for a zoning commission, to be composed of not more than seven members to be elected by the town council, and prescribe its powers and duties; is authorized to provide the method of appeal from findings of said zoning commission, to provide for a board of zoning appeals to be elected by the town council to hear such appeals and to provide its powers and duties, and to provide for the right of certiorari from said board of zoning appeals to the Superior Court of Chatham County.
Section 20. - Eminent domain.
(a)
The Town of Thunderbolt is hereby granted the power and privilege of eminent domain, and the town council is authorized and empowered to condemn lands within or without its corporate limits for any municipal uses or purposes including the erection of public buildings for said town, public parks, playgrounds, water supply, sewers, forms for handling and disposing of sewerage, garbage or trash and for any other public purposes and improvements.
(b)
Said town is authorized and empowered to take and condemn personal property in the same manner as above when needed for public purposes of the town.
(c)
The town council shall have the power and authority to widen, extend, improve or straighten any street, alley, lane or square in said town and to open, lay out and establish any new street, alley, lane, walk or square or any building or bridge of whatsoever nature. The power and authority of eminent domain is granted to said town for these purposes and, should eminent domain be exercised by the town council, the laws of Georgia in force at the time eminent domain is exercised by the town shall govern the procedure.
Section 21. - Regulation of businesses, trades and occupations.
The town council shall have full and exclusive power and authority, agreeable to the law, to license, regulate, authorize, police, control or prohibit theatrical exhibitions, merry-go-rounds, circuses, dance halls, skating rinks, swimming pools, marinas, fishing camps, shows and exhibitions of all kinds; automobiles, trucks, taxis, drays and public or private vehicles of all kinds; traveling vendors of ice cream and dairy products, medicines, soaps, lotions and all other like articles; hotels, motels, boarding houses, rooming houses, apartments, restaurants and lunch stands; fish stands or markets, meat markets, mercantile establishments, chain stores, laundries and dry cleaning establishments; billiard tables, pool tables or other kinds of tables, tenpins, shooting galleries and bowling alleys, slot machines or any games operated by "coin-in-slot" devices for carrying on games, as well as vending machines; generally, bakeries, dairies, barber and beauty shops, garage or motor vehicle repair shops, taxis, blacksmith shops, warehouses, storage facilities, auctioneers, peddlers and pawn brokers; all agents of real estate; all agents of fire, health, accident, indemnity, casualty, life and other insurance companies; the sale of all kinds of beverages, cigars, cigarettes and tobacco products; retailers of malt, vinous or spirituous liquors; dealers in and/or dispensers of gasoline either at wholesale or retail, from tanks or otherwise; and all businesses, occupations, professions, callings, trades or avocations which, under the laws of this State, are subject to license.
Section 22. - Health insurance and pension plan.
The town council is authorized and empowered to make deductions periodically from the wages and salaries of its employees and officers with which to pay the premium for life, health, accident, hospitalization, annuity or pension of such officers or employees upon a group insurance plan and to contract and enter into agreements with insurance companies whereby the kind of group insurance desired by the employees may be furnished to them and the premiums therefor remitted periodically by the town. The participation in such group insurance by such officers or employees shall be entirely voluntary on the part of such officers or employees at all times. Any officer or employee may withdraw or retire from such group plan upon giving ten days' notice in writing to the town directing discontinuance of the deductions from his wages or salary in payment of such plan. The town council, in carrying out any provisions of this Section, shall have the right to contribute or pay any part or all of the premium due on the coverage afforded its officers or employees being charged for the plan of protection afforded out of the general funds of the town.
Section 23. - Miscellaneous expenditures.
The town council shall have authority to make payments out of the funds of the town treasury, not otherwise appropriated, for the support of the poor, for public libraries or contributions thereto, for public restrooms, and for other facilities and other institutions or causes of like character.
Section 24. - Sale of certain property.
The town council shall have the right to buy, sell and/or exchange any part of the public domain including public streets which are not considered necessary or convenient for public use when such sale is deemed by the council in its uncontrolled discretion to be for the best advantage and interest of the town and its inhabitants; but the town shall not close, exchange or sell any public street or part of streets which has been opened to the public by the municipality and used by the public at any time during three years next prior to the time of consideration of such sale except after approval by a majority vote of those voting in a referendum election held for the purpose of determination of the subject of such proposed sale.
Section 25. - Municipal officers and employees.
The town council, by majority vote of the mayor and council, shall elect any or all of the following municipal officers: tax collector, tax receiver, tax commissioner, registrar, members of authorized municipal agencies and commissions, chief of police, town marshal, judge of the municipal court, judge pro tempore, clerk of the court, administrative clerks of the court, town physician, town attorney, superintendent of waterworks and sewerage, street superintendent, superintendent of utilities, superintendent of the public works department, and town clerk. The town council may designate if it so desires that one person shall hold more than one of the offices or positions which it may create by ordinance. The council shall fix the compensation, prescribe the duties, and specify the term of employment of each person whom it shall employ; provided, however, that if the town council fails to state the term of employment, such employee so appointed or elected by the town council shall serve only for and during the pleasure of the town council and may be removed by it from office or employment at the council's pleasure with or without cause or notice.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 200), page 4193, § 4; 1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 247), page 4797, § 2)
Section 26. - Committees.
The town council may provide by ordinance for such committees as it deems necessary for the administration of the municipal affairs, prescribe the duties of such committees and define their respective authority.
Section 27. - Board of health.
The town council is authorized and empowered to create and establish a board of health of the town independently or in conjunction and cooperation with the Health Department of Chatham County and to consist of such members as the council may determine. The mayor and the Chatham County health officer shall serve as members of the board of health, and all remaining members shall be residents of the Town of Thunderbolt. The board shall have full power to execute all sanitary measures necessary for the preservation of the public health and for the prevention of generation and introduction of infectious and contagious diseases. The board shall likewise exercise absolute powers over the subject of quarantine, personal, animal or otherwise. The town council shall by appropriate ordinance fix penalties for violation of rules and regulations of the board, and the municipal court of the town shall have jurisdiction to try and punish all persons charged with and convicted of violation of such ordinances or violation of the regulations of the board of health. Rules and regulations for quarantine and governing the conduct of all persons with reference thereto, which rules and regulations may be promulgated and established by the board of health, shall have the force and effect of an ordinance of the Town of Thunderbolt and violation thereof shall constitute violation of an ordinance of the town.
( Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 28. - Police provisions.
(a)
It shall be lawful for the chief of police or any policeman of the Town of Thunderbolt lawfully appointed to arrest, with warrant when required and without warrant when not required, any and all persons violating the ordinances and laws of said town and State in the town limits and to confine such person or persons so arrested in the town or county prison until a hearing can be had in the municipal court of the town.
(b)
Any police officer of the Town of Thunderbolt may arrest without a warrant for the violation of any ordinance of the town committed in his presence or any person within the limits of the State of Georgia, provided that such policeman shall have entered into immediate and continuous pursuit of such offender.
Section 29. - Fire department and fire codes
(a)
The town council shall provide by ordinance for the establishment and maintenance of a fire department, either voluntary or paid, for said town and for this purpose may acquire property and equipment to be paid for out of the revenues of said town or by municipal bonds properly voted and validated as is now prescribed by law. They may provide by ordinance such rules and regulations as they deem necessary for the government and control of the fire department, which ordinances shall provide for officers for the department and prescribe their duties, authority, terms of office, manner of election and compensation, if any.
(b)
The town council may establish fire limits and prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as the council shall see fit for the regulation of buildings erected within the town or for the repair or maintenance of buildings. The governing authority of the town may adopt such national or regional standard codes as it shall deem necessary, prescribe the materials to be used and the manner of erecting, repairing or maintaining buildings. The council shall have power to compel changes in construction of arrangement or may compel the removal of buildings or of fixtures therein when, in its judgment, the same are dangerous or likely to be so or are in violation of the ordinances of the town. The council may compel the owner or occupant of the premises to pay the expenses of such change or removal, which expenses shall be collected by execution in the same manner as municipal taxes.
Section 30. - Municipal court.
(a)
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "Municipal Court, Town of Thunderbolt", which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against laws and ordinances of said town and to punish for a violation of the same. The mayor and aldermen are authorized and empowered to elect a recorder to hold said court and to fix the qualifications, term of office and compensation. Said recorder so elected shall take such oath as may be prescribed by the mayor and aldermen. Any vacancy in the office of the recorder shall be filled by the mayor and aldermen. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; to punish any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the Town of Thunderbolt constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and to prescribe the conditions of forfeiture of the same; to administer oaths; and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the recorder. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the town council.
(b)
The judge shall have the power to impose fines, costs, and forfeitures for the violation of any law or any ordinance of the Town of Thunderbolt passed in accordance with this charter. The court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine of $500.00 or six months in jail or any combination thereof. The court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 36-31-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated or any other law of this state. The judge of such court shall have such other powers as provided for in Chapter 31 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated or any other general law of this state. The judge shall be to all intents and purposes a magistrate so far as to enable the judge to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the Town of Thunderbolt, which warrants may be executed by any officer of said town, and to admit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction. The court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of the magistrate court over offenses against the criminal laws of the state committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be otherwise specified in this charter, the judge is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the Town of Thunderbolt. The court is specifically vested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by state laws generally to municipal courts, particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. The judge is authorized to administer oaths.
(c)
The recorder is authorized to issue warrants for offenses committed within the corporate limits of said town against any law or ordinance of said town or this State. When the offense is against the State, the recorder may hear evidence and commit to jail or take bond for appearance before the Senate court having jurisdiction of the offense as a justice of the peace could do. If the offense charged in the warrant be one against the laws or ordinances of the town, the arresting officers shall carry the case before the municipal court and none other, with the same thereby disposed of as other cases of arrest not made under warrant. All warrants issued by the recorder or the recorder pro tempore acting in his stead shall be directed to any policeman or marshal of the Town of Thunderbolt and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables of this State. Any one of said officers shall have the same authority to execute said warrants as the sheriffs of this State have to execute criminal warrants.
(d)
The recorder or the recorder pro tempore acting in his stead shall have the power and authority to subpoena witnesses to attend the municipal court under the same rules and regulations that regulate and govern the superior courts of this State, to compel their attendance, and to punish any witness who has been subpoenaed and who failed to attend under the provisions for contempt already provided for in this charter.
(e)
In all cases in the municipal court of the Town of Thunderbolt, the costs incurred and allowable herein may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the justice of the peace courts of said State or the town council may establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation, and the town shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost, meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over the superior court for violations of State law. The town council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said town and for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions and for their collections and payment into the town treasury. The recorder is hereby authorized to issue such other processes as may be necessary to the proper administration of said court.
(f)
The town council shall prescribe by ordinance such other rules and regulations as shall be deemed necessary in connection with the court and its operation, including provision for the summary forfeiture of appearance bonds.
(g)
There may be an appeal in any case from the municipal court to the mayor and aldermen, which appeal must be entered in writing and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed and determined by said mayor and aldermen, and the judgment of the mayor and aldermen may be reviewed by certiorari to the Superior Court of Chatham County as provided for in Code Chapter 19-2 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, as amended.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 200), page 4193, § 5; Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 31. - Executions.
(a)
All executions for the enforcement and or collection of fines, assessments, bonds or other forfeitures, public improvement costs, utilities' charges or other claims, demands or debts including ad valorem taxes, special taxes, other taxes, business taxes or licenses and other debts or obligations of every nature owed to the town shall be issued by the person designated by the town council and bear teste in the name of the mayor or mayor pro tempore; shall be directed to the chief of police, all police officers of the town and all and singular the sheriffs and constables of the State; shall state the purpose or purposes for which issued; and shall be made returnable to the town council 30 days after the date of issue. It shall be the duty of the chief of police or other levying officer into whose hands such executions are placed to levy the same, to advertise the sale of the property so levied upon and to sell the same, all in the same manner and by the same procedure as sheriff's sales of real estate are levied upon, advertised and sold under executions or fi. fas. in Chatham County, Georgia. In such cases, the defendant in execution shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality if such execution shall have issued illegally or if it is proceeding illegally. In either of such cases, such execution shall be returned by the levying officer to the Superior Court of Chatham County for trial as in other cases of affidavit of illegality; provided, however, a qualified bond shall be made and filed as in other cases of illegality. Such sales shall have the same force and effect as a sheriff's sale of similar property, and the officer making such sale shall have the same power as a sheriff to put purchasers of such sold property in possession thereof. Whenever at any such sale, no one present shall offer as much for the property levied upon as the amount of such execution together with all interest and costs thereon, after such property shall have been offered a reasonable time, the town, through its authorized agent, shall bid on such property and shall purchase the property on behalf of the town for not more than the amount of such execution, interest and costs if the value of such property is sufficient to cover such principal, interest and costs. The officer conducting and making the sale shall make and deliver to the town a deed or bill of sale, as the case may be, to the property so sold and the title thus acquired by the town shall be and become perfect and absolute and valid when the owner's right of redemption, if any, shall have expired pursuant to existing law. The officer making the sale shall put the town in possession and the town council shall have no right or authority to divest or alienate the title of the town to the property so purchased except by public sale for cash to the highest bidder therefor, which sale shall be conducted at the time and place and in the manner which shall be prescribed by ordinance of the town.
(b)
The forms of executions for ad valorem taxes, special taxes, other taxes, costs of construction of streets, street curbing, sidewalks, sewers and for repairs or improvements of any thereof; for fines and forfeitures in the municipal court of the town; and for any other expenses, costs, charges, licenses or assessments of every nature whatsoever owed to the town shall be prescribed by ordinance. This Section shall not invalidate any form now in use by the town.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 221), page 4213, § 4; Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 32. - Appearance bonds.
The town council may provide by ordinance for the taking of appearance bonds to be made by persons charged with violations of any of the laws or ordinances of the town. They may prescribe by ordinance for the taking of cash collateral bond or have bonds issued by personal solvent securities. They may provide for the summary forfeiture of all cash bonds and for the summary forfeiture of all other appearance bonds by order of the municipal court, which order, when entered, may be enforced by execution therefor issued by the person designated by the town council.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 221), page 4213, § 4; Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Section 33. - Budget.
(a)
No money shall be expended by the mayor and council of the town during any year until a budget has been prepared and adopted as herein provided. The budget shall include in its anticipations for the year a sum not to exceed the normal revenue collections by the town from all sources during the preceding year. The council shall appropriate a sum sufficient to cover the debts service, including the sinking fund and interest on bonded indebtedness, which sum shall not be diverted to any other department or departments by the council during the year. Should the income of the town be decreased by law or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the council to immediately adjust its budget so as to comply with such decreased revenue. In the event of any increase in revenue, which increase has become definite and reasonably certain by an increase in income, the council may revise the budget accordingly and take such anticipated receipts into consideration in the budget.
(b)
After the budget has been adopted, the council may transfer or reallocate funds, with the exception of appropriations for debt services.
Section 34. - Authority to secure loans.
The
council has authority to borrow money to meet casual deficiencies in the revenues of the town; provided, however, the loans thus negotiated shall not extend over a period longer than 12 months and shall be paid out of the revenues of the current fiscal year for which provision shall be made by tax levy or other authorized collections for the current fiscal year.
Section 35. - Expenditures from town treasury.
All
sums authorized to be paid or expended by the town under authority of this Act or general law shall be paid from the treasury of the Town of Thunderbolt.
Section 36. - [repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
