325.2.1 - Clearances.
Any person owning, leasing, controlling, operating, or maintaining any building, structure, or apiary upon or adjoining any mountainous, or forest or brush-covered land or land covered with flammable growth, and any person owning, leasing, or controlling any land adjacent to such structures, shall at all times:
1.
Place or store firewood, manure, compost, and other combustible materials a minimum of 30 feet from any building, structure, or apiary.
2.
Maintain around and adjacent to such building, structure, or apiary an effective fire protection or firebreak made by removing and clearing away, for a distance of not less than 30 feet on each side thereof, all flammable vegetation or other combustible growth. This includes ornamental plants and trees known to be flammable, including but not limited to, acacia, cedar, cypress, eucalyptus, juniper, pine, and pampas grass.
EXCEPTIONS:
1.
Ornamental plants and trees that are individually planted, spaced, and maintained in such a manner that they do not form a means of transmitting fire from native growth to the structure.
2.
Cultivated ground cover such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants provided that they are maintained in a condition that does not form a means of transmitting fire from native growth to the structure.
3.
When the fire code official or commissioner finds that because of extra hazardous conditions, a firebreak of only 30 feet around such building, structure, or apiary is not sufficient to provide reasonable fire safety, the person owning, leasing, controlling, operating, or maintaining the building, structure, or apiary shall maintain around or adjacent to any building, structure, or apiary an additional fire protection or firebreak made by removing all brush, flammable vegetation, or combustible growth located from 30 to 100 feet from such building, structure, or apiary, as may be required by the fire code official or commissioner. Grass and other vegetation located more than 30 feet from such building, structure, or apiary and less than 18 inches in height above the ground, may be maintained where necessary to stabilize the soil and prevent erosion.
4.
That portion of any tree which extends within 10 feet of the outlet of any chimney shall be removed.
5.
Maintain any tree adjacent to or overhanging any building, structure, or apiary free of dead wood.
6.
Maintain the roof of any building, structure or apiary free of leaves, needles, or other dead vegetative growth.
7.
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to require any person to maintain any clearing on land where such person does not have the legal right to maintain such clearing, nor shall any provision of this ordinance be construed to require any person to enter upon or to damage property of another without the consent of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 2010-0060 ยง 45, 2010.)
