Chapter 22.08 - DEFINITIONS
Sections:

22.08.010 - A.
—  "Access, lateral" means a recorded dedication or easement granting to the public the right of passive recreation and the right to pass and repass over the dedicator's real property, generally parallel to the mean high tide line, up to a defined physical feature or inland point, but allowing the public the right to pass nearer than five feet to any living unit on the property only when no other beach areas are available for public access.
—  "Access, vertical" means a recorded dedication or easement granting to the public the privilege and right to pass and repass over the dedicator's real property from a public road or dedicated trail to the mean high tide line.
—  "Accessory building or structure" means a detached subordinate building or structure, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the land, and which is located in the same or a less restrictive zone, and on the same lot or parcel of land with the main building or use.
—  "Accessory use" means a use customarily incidental to, related and clearly subordinate to a principal use established on the same lot or parcel of land, which accessory use does not alter said principal use nor serve property other than the lot or parcel of land on which the principal use is located. "Appurtenant use" means the same as accessory use.
—  "Adjacent" means two or more lots or parcels of land separated only by an alley, street, highway or recorded easement, or two or more objects that lie near or close to each other.
—  "Adjoining" means two or more lots or parcels of land sharing a common boundary line, or two or more objects in contact with each other. Lots or parcels of land which touch at corners only shall not be deemed adjoining. "Abut" or "abutting" and "contiguous" shall mean the same as adjoining.
—  "Adult" means a person who is 18 years of age or older.
—  "Adult day care facility" means any facility which provides nonmedical care and supervision to adults of less than a 24-hour-per-day basis, as defined and licensed under the regulations of the state of California.
—  "Adult residential facility" means any facility which provides 24-hour-a-day nonmedical care and supervision to adults, as defined and licensed under the regulations of the state of California.
—  "Aggrieved person" means any person who, in person or through a representative, appeared at a public hearing of the Coastal Commission or county in connection with the decision or action appealed, or who, by other appropriate means prior to a hearing, informed the Coastal Commission or county of the nature of his concerns or who for good cause was unable to do either. "Aggrieved person" includes the applicant for a permit and, in the case of an approval of a local coastal program, the county.
—  "Aircraft" means any contrivance, now known or hereafter invented, for use or designed for navigation of or fight in the air.
—  "Airport" means any area of land or water which is used or intended to be used for the landing and taking off of aircraft and any appurtenant area used or intended to be used for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-of-way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon. "Airport" includes helipod, helistop and landing strip.
—  "Alley" means a public or private right-of-way less than 40-feet wide which affords a means of vehicular access to the side or rear of properties abutting a street or highway.
—  "Ambulance emergency services facility" means a facility operated by a non-public agency where ambulances are located and dispatched for the purpose of responding to emergency calls received from public agencies. Such a facility may operate 24 hours a day and may include sleeping facilities, a locker room, restrooms with showers, and a lunchroom. Ambulances shall not be washed or maintained at any such facility. For purposes of this definition of ambulance emergency services facility, ambulance shall be as defined in County Code Section 7.16.010.B; public agency shall be as defined in County Code Section 7.02.280.
—  "Ambulance services facility" means a facility operated by a non-public agency where ambulances or ambulettes are located and dispatched for the purpose of responding to emergency and non-emergency calls from public agencies or any other individuals or entities. Such a facility may operate 24 hours a day and may include sleeping facilities, a locker room, restrooms with showers, and a lunchroom. Ambulances and ambulettes may be washed and maintained at any such facility. For purposes of this definition of ambulance services facility, ambulance shall be as defined in County Code Section 7.16.010.B; ambulette shall be as defined in County Code Section 7.17.010.A.
—  "Amphitheater" means an unroofed or partially enclosed building or structure used for public assembly and/or entertainment, including sports events, theatrical performances, concerts and recitals, circuses, stock shows and conventions. "Amphitheater" includes stadium, sports arena and outdoor theater, but shall not include an entertainment park or its accessory building or structures.
—  Apartment, Bachelor. "Bachelor apartment" means a dwelling unit in an apartment house that combines sleeping, living, cooking and dining facilities into one habitable room. "Light housekeeping room" means the same as "bachelor apartment."
—  Apartment, Efficiency. "Efficiency apartment" means a dwelling unit in an apartment house that combines sleeping, living, cooking and dining facilities into two habitable rooms, one of which shall be a kitchen. "Single apartment" and "efficiency living unit" mean the same as "efficiency apartment."
—  Apartment, One-Bedroom. "One-bedroom apartment" means a dwelling unit in an apartment house that contains a maximum of three habitable rooms, one of which shall be a kitchen.
—  Apartment, Two or More Bedroom. "Two or more bedroom apartment" means a dwelling unit in an apartment house that contains more than three habitable rooms.
—  "Apartment house" means a building, or a portion of a building, designed or used for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other, and containing three or more dwelling units.
—  "Aquaculture" means a form of agriculture that is devoted to the controlled growing and harvesting of fish, shellfish and plants in marine, brackish and fresh water. Aquaculture products are agricultural products, and aquaculture facilities and land uses shall be treated as agricultural facilities and land uses in all planning and permit-issuing decisions governed by this Title 22.
—  Arcade, Game (Penny). "Game (penny) arcade" means any premises where there is maintained five or more games of skill or amusement whereby machines, contests, devices, games, tables, boards or amusements, the operation of which is permitted, controlled, obtained, conducted, allowed, authorized or made possible by the depositing of any coin, plate, disc, slug or key into any slot, crevice or other opening or receptacle, or by the payment of any fee or fees, and where said machine, contest, device, game, table, board or amusement tests, or provides a means for testing, the skill of the operator thereof with reference to its operation or the results thereof.
—  Arcade, Movie. "Movie arcade" means any premises where there is maintained one or more machines, devices, apparatus or contrivances designed for individual viewing and used to show still or motion pictures. For purposes of Title 22, a "movie arcade" does not include a "theater."
—  "Area of special flood hazard" means the land in a flood plain, as identified by the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) of Los Angeles County, subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
—  Area, Net.
A.
"Net area" means that portion of a lot, or parcel of land which is:
1.
Not subject to any easement or included as a proposed public or private facility such as an alley, highway or street except as provided in subparagraph 3, or other necessary public site within a proposed development project;
2.
Subject to an easement where the owner of the underlying fee has the right to use the entire surface except that portion where the owner of the easement may place utility poles or minor utility structures;
3.
Subject to that portion of a highway easement or private street easement shown on an alternate cross-section in Section 21.24.090 of Title 21 of this code, Subdivisions, marked with an Asterisk (*);
4.
That portion of a corner lot or corner parcel of land not to exceed five percent of the net area within a corner cutoff.
B.
Except as above provided, portions of a lot or parcel of land subject to a highway easement or any other private or public easement shall not be counted as a part of the net area.
—  "Article" means an article of Ordinance 1494, unless some other ordinance or statute is mentioned.
—  "Automobile dismantling yard" means any premises used for the dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles and trailers required to be registered under the Vehicle Code of the state of California, including the buying, selling or dealing in such vehicles or integral parts or component materials thereof, and the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled or wrecked inoperative vehicles and trailers. Automobile dismantling shall not include the incidental storage of inoperative or disabled vehicles in connection with the legal operation of an automobile repair garage or automobile body and fender repair shop.
—  "Automobile impound yard" means any premises used for the temporary storage of vehicles which have been legally removed or impounded at the direction of a peace officer or by judicial order from public or private property as prescribed by law.
—  Automobile Parking Space, Compact. "Compact automobile parking space" means any permanently maintained space, having a width of not less than eight feet and a length of not less than 15 feet, so located and arranged as to permit the storage of a passenger automobile of compact size.
—  Automobile Parking Space, Standard. "Standard automobile parking space" means any permanently maintained space, having a width of not less than eight and one-half feet and a length of not less than 18 feet, so located and arranged as to permit the storage of a passenger automobile of standard size.
—  "Automobile service station" means any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products are sold and/or light maintenance activities such as engine tuneups, lubrication, minor repairs and carburetor cleaning are conducted. Automobile service stations shall not include premises where heavy automobile maintenance activities such as engine overhauls, automobile painting and body and fender work are conducted.
—  "Automobile storage space" means "automobile parking space."
(Ord. 2014-0004 § 1, 2014; Ord. 96-0004 § 2, 1996; Ord. 89-0152 § 1, 1989; Ord. 88-0156 § 1, 1988; Ord. 85-0004 § 1, 1985; Ord. 83-0161 § 1, 1983; Ord. 82-0249 § 1, 1982; Ord. 82-0106 § 1, 1982; Ord. 82-0024 § 1, 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.1, 1927.)
22.08.020 - B.
—  "Backfill" means earth, overburden, mine waste, or imported material used to replace material removed during mining operations.
—  "Basement" means that portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is partly below and partly above grade (as defined in Section 22.08.070), but so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor below is less than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
—  "Bench" means a level area that interrupts a slope, constructed for such purpose as to retain or limit rock falls, to provide working surfaces or access, and to control erosion.
—  "Bicycle parking space" means any permanently maintained bicycle rack or other similar device which is designed for the secure storage of a standard size bicycle.
—  "Body piercing" means the creation of an opening in the human body for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration. "Body piercing" shall include, but is not limited to, the piercing of an ear, lip, tongue, nose, or eyebrow. "Body piercing" does not include, for the purposes of the ordinance codified in this section, piercing an ear with a disposable, single-use stud or solid needle that is applied using a mechanical device to force the needle or stud through the ear. Nothing in this definition shall be deemed to restrict the activities of any licensed physician or surgeon.
—  "Body piercing parlor" means any place of business where body piercing occurs.
—  "Bookstore" means any premises which has as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade books, magazines, periodicals, pamphlets or newspapers.
—  "Borrow pit" means any place on a lot or parcel of land where dirt, soil, clay, decomposed granite or other similar material is removed by excavation or otherwise for any purpose other than surface mining operations or a grading project, off-site transport.
—  "Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
—  Building, Enclosed. "Enclosed building" means a building enclosed on all sides.
—  "Building or structure, nonconforming due to standards," means any primary or accessory building or structure that was lawfully established and in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time the ordinance codified in this title or any amendment thereto became effective, but which, due to the application of this title or any amendment thereto, no longer complies with all the applicable standards of development in the zone in which it is located. "Building or structure, nonconforming due to standards" does not include a building or structure located in the coastal zone which is consistent with the provisions of this Title 22 with the exception of obtaining a coastal development permit.
—  "Building or structure, nonconforming due to use," means any primary or accessory building or structure that was lawfully established and in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time the ordinance codified in this title or any amendment thereto became effective, but which, due to the application of this title or any amendment thereto, is designed for a use not listed as permitted, accessory, director's review, or subject to permit in the zone in which it is located. "Building or structure, nonconforming due to use" shall also include buildings or structures designed for uses reclassified from permitted to director's review, or subject to permit in the same zone. "Building or structure, nonconforming due to use" does not include a building or structure located in the coastal zone which is consistent with the provisions of this Title 22 with the exception of obtaining a coastal development permit.
(Ord. 99-0013 § 1, 1999; Ord. 96-0004 § 3, 1996; Ord. 89-0152 § 2, 1989; Ord. 83-0161 § 2, 1983; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.2, 1927.)
22.08.030 - C.
—  Cabaret.
A.
"Cabaret" means any bar, cocktail lounge or restaurant, wherein entertainment, as described in Sections 143.2, 143.3 and 143.4 of the Rules and Regulations, Chapter 1, Title 4, California Administrative Code (California State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control) is provided, except that this subsection shall not be construed to authorize any entertainment, conduct or activity prohibited by said Rules and Regulations.
B.
"Cabaret" shall also include any establishment which provides any entertainment and/or activity described in the aforesaid Rules and Regulations, whether or not alcoholic beverages are dispensed.
—  "Campground" means a lot or parcel of land designed or used for tent camping, including picnic areas, but excluding any structures for permanent human occupancy.
—  "Caretaker" means a person residing on the premises of an employer and who is receiving meaningful compensation to assume the primary responsibility for the necessary repair, maintenance, supervision or security of the real or personal property of the employer which is located on the same or contiguous lots or parcels of land.
—  "Cargo shipping container" means a reusable transport and storage container designed to be carried on semi-truck trailers, containers ships, and freight trains.
—  "Cellar" is that portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly or partly below grade (as defined in Section 22.08.070) and so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor below is equal to or greater than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
—  Centerline. Where reference is made to the "centerline" of any highway, such centerline is deemed to be the centerline established by the county engineer for any proposed or dedicated public way which, in whole or in part, is included in any such highway. Said established centerlines are those shown on a series of maps entitled County Surveyor's Maps or County Surveyor's Filed Maps on file in the office of the county engineer, except that where two or more such centerlines are shown on any map in said series of maps, the centerline labeled "proposed centerline" is deemed to be the centerline of the highway.
—  "Chapter" means a chapter of the ordinance set out in this Title 22 unless some other ordinance or statute is mentioned.
—  "Child" means a person under 18 years of age.
—  "Child care center" means a facility other than a large family child care home or a small family child care home in which less than 24-hour-per-day nonmedical care and supervision is provided for children in a group setting as defined and licensed under the regulations of the state of California.
—  "Coastal-dependent use" means any use which requires a site on, or adjacent to, the sea to be able to function at all.
—  "Coastal-related use" means any use that is dependent on a coastal-dependent development or use.
—  "Coastal development permit" means a permit for any development within the coastal zone that is required pursuant to Part 17 of Chapter 22.56.
—  "Coastal Act" means the California Coastal Act of 1976, commencing with Section 30000 of the Public Resources Code.
—  "Coastal Commission" means the California Coastal Commission created by and operating under the Coastal Act of 1976.
—  "Coastal zone" means that portion in the county of Los Angeles of the land, offshore islands and water area of the State of California as shown on the detailed coastal maps prepared by the California Coastal Commission pursuant to Chapters 2 and 2.5 of the Coastal Act of 1976, as amended.
—  "Commercial parking lot or building" means a parking area or structure established or operated as a business, providing off-street parking for a fee or charge.
—  "Commission" means the regional planning commission of the county of Los Angeles.
—  "Communication equipment building" means a building housing operating electrical and mechanical equipment necessary for the conducting of a public utility communications business, with or without personnel.
—  "Community garden" means a garden for multiple users established on a single or multiple plots of land for the cultivation of fruits, vegetables, plants, flowers, and/or herbs for the collective benefit of its users. All accessory storage structures for appurtenant materials and equipment for the community garden shall be completely enclosed, and shall be located no less than six feet from any habitable structure. The sale of products on-site at a community garden is prohibited, unless otherwise specifically permitted in the zone.
—  "Condition of use" means a development standard determined to be necessary to permit harmonious classification of a use as listed in a zone and therefore a prerequisite to place, or for application to place, such use as classified. A condition of use shall be subject to the provisions of Part 2 of Chapter 22.56, but shall be deemed a mandatory requirement except as provided therein.
—  "Cool pavement" means paving materials that reflect the sun and/or increase water evaporation to provide cooler ground surfaces than traditional paving materials.
—  "County" means the county of Los Angeles.
—  "County engineer" means the county engineer of the county of Los Angeles.
—  "Cut slope (face)" means any bank or slope that has been created by removing material below the pre-existing ground surface.
(Ord. 2016-0016 § 3, 2016; Ord. 2015-0020 § 1, 2015; Ord. 2013-0001 § 13, 2013; Ord. 2004-0030 § 1, 2004; Ord. 89-0152 § 3, 1989; Ord. 85-0168 § 19, 1985; Ord. 85-0004 § 2, 1985; Ord. 81-0005 § 1, 1981; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.3, 1927.)
22.08.040 - D.
—  "Dairy" means any place or premises upon which milk is produced for sale or other distribution and where three or more cows or seven or more goats are in lactation.
—  "Density bonus" means a density increase over the otherwise maximum allowable residential density provided in this Title 22. The allowable density to which the bonus may be applied shall be consistent with both the general plan category and the zone classification describing the affected property.
—  "Density-controlled development" means the concentration of dwelling units on a portion or portions of a lot or parcel of land resulting in the remainder of said lot or parcel being free of buildings or structures, as opposed to development spread throughout the entire lot or parcel. Such development shall be accomplished by computing density on a project level rather than a parcel-by-parcel basis, and by the use of smaller lots than are customarily permitted in the zone in which the development is proposed, while retaining the remaining portion of such lot or parcel in permanent open space.
—  "Detached living quarters" means living quarters within a detached accessory building located on the same premises as the main building, for use by temporary guests of the occupancy of the premises. Such accessory building shall have no plumbing or plumbing facilities of any kind except for space heating, or air conditioning, or both, and except in or for the purpose of supplying water to or disposing of wastes from a toilet or bathroom.
—  "Development," in the coastal zone, means the placement or erection of any solid material or structure on land, in or under water; discharge or disposal of any dredged material or of any gaseous, liquid, solid or thermal waste; grading, removing, dredging, mining or extraction of any materials; change in the density or intensity of use of land, including, but not limited to, subdivisions pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act (commencing with Section 66410 of the Government Code), any other division of land, including lot splits, except where the land division is brought about in connection with the purchase of such land by a public agency for public recreational use; change in the intensity of use of water or of access thereto; construction, reconstruction, demolition or alteration of the size of any structure including any facility of any private, public or municipal utility; and the removal or harvesting of major vegetation other than for agricultural purposes or kelp harvesting. "Structure" includes, but is not limited to, any building, road, pipe, flume, conduit, siphon, aqueduct, telephone line and electrical power transmission and distribution line.
—  "Director" means the planning director of the department of regional planning of the county of Los Angeles.
—  "Disability" means a condition which renders an individual unable to engage in normal activities by reason of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to last for a continuous period for not less than 12 months.
—  "Disability rehabilitation and training center" means any facility which provides specialized services directed toward the adjustment to, or compensation for, a disability such as, but not limited to, a developmental, orthopedic or sensory motor disability, or toward the social, personal or economic habilitation or rehabilitation of an individual with such a disability. Such services may include, but are not limited to, day and domiciliary facilities, personal, psychological and sociolegal counseling, physical and special education, sheltered employment, job placement, speech therapy, vocational training, and transportation.
—  "Domestic animal" is an animal which is commonly maintained in residence with man.
—  "Domestic violence shelter" means any facility consisting of one or more buildings or structures at which specialized services are provided, including but not limited to the temporary provision of housing and food to the victims of domestic violence, as provided in Division 9, Part 6, Chapter 5 of the California Welfare and Institutions Code.
—  "Dripline" means a vertical line extending from the outermost portion of a tree canopy to the ground.
—  "Dry cleaning establishment" means any premises, equipped to perform the service of dry cleaning as defined in the California Business and Professions Code. A dry cleaning establishment may include a dry cleaning agency, a retail or wholesale dry cleaning plant and dry cleaning, self-service or coin-operated.
A.
Dry Cleaning Plant, Retail. "Retail dry cleaning plant" means a plant, the gross sales of which consist of at least 51 percent of direct sales to persons other than licensed dry cleaners.
B.
Dry Cleaning Plant, Wholesale. "Wholesale dry cleaning plant" means a plant, the gross sales of which consist of at least 51 percent of sales to licensed dry cleaners.
—  "Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms in a building or portion thereof designed, intended to be used or used for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping quarters and containing only one kitchen. "Dwelling unit" also includes:
A.
One or more habitable rooms within a mobilehome which are designed to be occupied by one family with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation; and
B.
Any room used for sleeping accommodations which contains a bar sink and/or gas, electrical or water outlets designed, used or intended to be used for cooking facilities except a guest room or guest suite in a hotel specifically approved by conditional use permit pursuant to the provisions of this Title 22.
(Ord. 92-0079 § 1, 1992; Ord. 92-0037 § 1, 1992; Ord. 89-0152 § 4, 1989; Ord. 88-0005 § 1, 1988; Ord. 85-0004 § 3, 1985; Ord. 84-0236 § 1, 1984; Ord. 84-0047 § 1, 1984; Ord. 82-0168 § 1 (part), 1982; Ord. 82-0005 § 1, 1982; Ord. 82-0003 § 6 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.4, 1927.)
22.08.050 - E.
—  "Earth station" means structures comprising one or more large parabolic reflectors which may be mounted on a circular control building and all appurtenant equipment necessary for the receiving, amplifying or transmitting of microwave signals in connection with a public utility communication route or system employing such earth stations and satellites in space.
—  "Electric distribution substation" means an assembly of equipment which is part of a system for the distribution of electric power where electric energy is received at a subtransmission voltage and transformed to a lower voltage for distribution for general consumer use.
—  "Electric transmission substation" means an assembly of equipment which is part of a system for the transmission of electric power where electric energy is received at a very high voltage from its source of generation by means of a network of high-voltage lines and where, by means of transformers, said high voltage is transformed to a lower subtransmission voltage for purposes of supplying electric power to large individual consumers, interchange connections with other power producing agencies, or electric distribution substations for transformation to still lower voltage for distribution to smaller individual users.
—  "Entertainment park" means an entertainment or amusement complex developed as a regional visitor tourist attraction and organized around a central theme, such as amusement rides and attractions, tours or exhibitions, including all related accessory uses, buildings and structures designed and operated for patron participation and pleasure in conjunction therewith.
—  "Environmental document" means an Environmental Impact Report or a Negative Declaration.
—  "ERB" means the environmental review board.
—  "Escort bureau" means any business or agency which, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnishes or offers to furnish escorts who consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
—  "Expressway" means a highway or road designated on the Highway Plan, which is designed primarily for through traffic with full or partial control of access. Expressways are divided between 120 feet and 180 feet in width, which can accommodate six to 10 traffic lanes.
(Ord. 92-0037 § 2, 1992; Ord. 89-0061 § 4, 1989; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.5, 1927.)
22.08.060 - F.
—  "Family" means a person or persons related by blood, marriage or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit. "Family" shall also include a group of not more than five persons, including roomers but not servants, unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption, when living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
—  "Family child care home, large," means a home that regularly provides non-medical care, protection, and supervision for nine (9) to fourteen (14) children in the provider's own home, for periods of less than 24 hours per day as defined and licensed under the regulations of the state of California.
—  "Family child care home, small" means a home that regularly provides non-medical care, protection, and supervision for eight (8) or fewer children in the provider's own home for periods of less than 24 hours per day, as defined and licensed under the regulations of the State of California.
—  "Farmers' market" means a California certified farmers' market, as defined in California Health and Safety Code section 113742, where producers sell farm products and/or value-added farm products directly to consumers, which:
A.
Is operated by a local government agency, non-profit organization or similar community group, or one or more certified producers holding a certified producer certificate from the County Agricultural Commissioner.
B.
Is approved by the County Agricultural Commissioner to operate at the location at issue.
C.
Is open to the public.
D.
Has a designated farmers' market manager.
—  "Farmers' market manager" means the person responsible for the operation of a farmers' market.
—  "Farmworker" means the same as "agricultural employee" as defined in section 1140.4(b) of the California Labor Code.
—  "Farmworker dwelling unit" means a single-family residential unit that accommodates five or six farmworkers at any one time and must be occupied exclusively by these farmworkers.
—  "Farmworker housing" means a housing accommodation developed for and/or provided to a minimum of five farmworkers, and shall consist of any living quarters, dwelling, boarding house, tent, barracks, bunkhouse, maintenance-of-way car, mobile home, manufactured home, recreational vehicle, travel trailer, or other housing accommodation maintained in one or more buildings and on one or more sites. Farmworker housing shall consist of either: (1) a farmworker dwelling unit; or (2) a farmworker housing complex.
—  "Farmworker housing complex" means farmworker housing other than a farmworker dwelling unit that: (1) contains a maximum of 36 beds if the housing consists of any group living quarters, such as barracks or a bunkhouse, and is occupied exclusively by farmworkers; or (2) contains a maximum of 12 residential units, occupied exclusively by farmworkers and their households, if the housing does not consist of any group living quarters.
—  "Fill slope" means a bank or slope that has been built up by the placing of material on top of the existing ground surface.
—  "Floor area ratio" means the numerical value obtained through dividing the aboveground gross floor area of a building or buildings located on a lot or parcel of land by the total area of such lot or parcel of land.
—  "Foster family home" means any residential facility providing 24-hour care for six or fewer foster children which is the residence of the foster parent or parents, including their family, in whose care the foster children have been placed, as defined and licensed under the regulations of the county of Los Angeles.
—  "Freeway" means a highway in respect to which the owners of abutting lands have no right or easement of access to or from their abutting lands, or in respect to which such owners have only limited or restricted right or easement of access, and which is declared to be such in compliance with the Streets and Highways Code of the state of California; including principal roadways, interchange roadways connecting one freeway with another, and ingress and egress ramps connecting the freeway with other highways, but not including frontage roadways.
—  Frontage, Building. "Building frontage" means the exterior building wall of a ground floor business establishment on the side or sides of the building frontage and/or oriented toward a public street, highway or parkway. "Building frontage" shall be measured continuously along said building wall for the entire length of the business establishment, including any portion thereof which is other than parallel to the remainder of the wall.
—  Frontage, Street or Highway. "Street or highway frontage" means that portion of a lot or parcel of land which borders a public street, highway or parkway. "Street or highway frontage" shall be measured along the common lot line separating said lot or parcel of land from the public street, highway or parkway.
(Ord. 2013-0001 § 14, 2013; Ord. 2010-0042 § 1, 2010; Ord. 2004-0030 § 2, 2004; Ord. 85-0004 § 4, 1985; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.6, 1927.)
22.08.070 - G.
—  "General Plan" means the General Plan of the County of Los Angeles, and all elements thereof including areawide, community, neighborhood, specific and local coastal plans.
—  "Grade" means the approved grade of a lot or parcel of land at the time such lot or parcel is created, except when excavation is proposed. When excavation occurs after the lot or parcel is created, the grade of the excavated area shall be the grade after the excavation. Where fill material has been placed on a lot or parcel after such lot or parcel is created, grade shall be determined by the director. Grade within the perimeter of a structure shall be considered to transition uniformly from the lowest to the highest points of grade at the perimeter of the structure.
—  Grading project, off-site transport. "Off-site transport grading project" means any excavation or fill, or combination thereof, necessary and incidental to impending building construction or other lawful development which will require the removal from, or importation to, a lot or parcel of land of more than 10,000 cubic yards of dirt, soil, sand, gravel, rock, clay, decomposed granite or other minerals along a transport route having more than 20 occupied dwelling units in single- or two-family residences, apartment houses, mobilehomes or any combination thereof, or having a hospital or an accredited public or private school offering instruction required to be taught by the Education Code of the state of California, located within a parallel corridor 300 feet wide on each side of and measured from the edge of the existing right-of-way for a distance equal to the extent of such route or for a distance of 2,640 feet, whichever distance is less. "Impending building construction or development" as used in this section shall mean the initiation of such construction or development within one year.
—  Grading Project, On-Site. "On-site grading project" means any excavation or fill, or combination thereof, requiring a grading permit under the provisions of the Building Code (set out at Title 26 of this code), which will involve a volume of earth greater than 100,000 cubic yards, whether filed as one permit or the cumulative total of more than one permit on the same lot or parcel of land within a one-year period. "On-site grading project" shall not include any excavation or fill, or combination thereof, within the boundaries of any cemetery as depicted in a valid cemetery permit approved pursuant to Part 4 of Chapter 22.56 of Title 22 of this code or within the boundaries of a cemetery which was legally established pursuant to Section 22.56.560.
—  Group Home, Children. "Children group home" means a facility which provides 24-hour nonmedical care and supervision to children in a structured environment, with services provided at least in part by staff employed by the licensee, as defined and licensed under the regulations of the state of California.
A "licensee" means the adult, firm, partnership, association, corporation, county, city or other public agency having the authority and responsibility for the operation of a licensed community care facility.
—  "Guest ranch" shall mean any property operated as a ranch which offers guest rooms for rent or hire and which has outdoor recreational facilities such as horseback riding, swimming or hiking.
(Ord. 2002-0095 § 1, 2002; Ord. 89-0152 § 5, 1989; Ord. 89-0091 § 1, 1989; Ord. 85-0004 § 5, 1985; Ord. 82-0003 § 8 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.7, 1927.)
22.08.080 - H.
—  "Health retreat" means any use providing a preventive and rehabilitative health care program on a live-in basis and offering dietary education and control as well as physical therapy, including gymnasium and other exercise equipment, solariums, yoga, swimming and outdoor recreational activities. "Health retreat" shall not include hospital, medical office or clinic or nudist camp.
—  "Hearing examiner" means a person who is an employee of, or under contract to, the department of regional planning who has been appointed by the director and confirmed by the board of supervisors to perform the duties of hearing examiner as designated by this Title 22 relating to conducting public hearings, receiving public testimony, and making recommendations to the commission.
—  "Hearing officer" means the person who is an employee of the Department of Regional Planning appointed by the director and confirmed by the Board of Supervisors to perform the duties prescribed by this Title 22 relating to the conducting of public hearings and making determinations on land use permits and variances.
—  "Heavy equipment training school" means a lot or parcel of land used to train operators in the use of earth-moving and construction equipment, including motor graders, bulldozers, rollers, earth-movers, cable and hydraulic shovels, front loaders, drilling equipment, pile drivers, standing and truck cranes, forklifts, welders and similar equipment.
—  "Height of building or structure" means the plumb line distance from the point being measured to the grade.
—  "Heliport" means any helicopter landing area used, designed or intended to be used for the receiving or discharging of passengers and cargo and shall include any appurtenant facilities for passengers, cargo, or for the servicing, repair, shelter or storage of helicopters.
—  "Helistop" means any helicopter landing area used, designed or intended to be used for the receiving or discharging of passengers and cargo, but shall not include other appurtenant facilities permitted at a heliport other than a shelter for passengers.
—  "Highway" means a road on the Highway Plan, including an expressway, a major, a secondary, a limited secondary highway, and a parkway.
—  "Highway line" means the right-of-way line established for an alley, street or highway by this Title 22. Such line is coterminous with the lot line on property adjoining a fully widened alley, street or highway, except for a limited secondary highway or for a street where the alternate cross-section is used as delineated in Sections 21.24.065 and 21.24.090 of the Subdivision Ordinance set out in Title 21 of this code. "Property line," as defined in this chapter, shall be deemed the "highway line."
—  "Hillside Management Area (HMA)" means any portion of a lot or parcel of land which contains terrain with a natural slope gradient of 25 percent or steeper.
—  "Historic vehicle collection" means one or more vehicles of historic value, special interest vehicles, parts cars, or street rod vehicles as defined in the California Vehicle Code, which are collected, restored or maintained for noncommercial hobby or historical purposes.
—  "Hog ranch" means any premises where three or more weaned hogs are maintained.
—  "Home-based occupation" means establishment of an accessory use, within a portion of a dwelling unit, of a single business conducted by the persons residing in that dwelling and up to one employee or volunteer not residing in the dwelling unit.
—  "Homeless shelter" means a residential facility, other than a community care facility, operated by either a governmental agency or private nonprofit organization, which offers temporary accommodations to the homeless. As used herein, "temporary accommodations" means that persons may reside at the shelter for a period of time not to exceed six months.
—  "Hospital" means any institution, place, building or agency licensed by the Departments of Public Health or Mental Hygiene of the state of California, which maintains and operates organized facilities for the diagnosis, care and treatment of human illness, including convalescence, and including care during and after pregnancy. "Hospital" includes sanitarium, sanatorium, convalescent home, nursing home and maternity home.
—  Hospital, Small Animal. "Small animal hospital" means any facility providing medical or surgical treatment, clipping, bathing or other services, including incidental boarding to dogs, cats and other small animals.
—  "Hotel" means any building containing six or more guest rooms or suites of guest rooms intended or designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or which are occupied on a temporary basis by guests.
(Ord. 2015-0042 § 1, 2015; Ord. 2008-0043 § 2, 2008; Ord. 99-0101 § 1, 1999; Ord. 91-0065 § 1, 1991; Ord. 91-0062, § 1, 1991; Ord. 89-0091 § 2, 1989; Ord. 89-0061 § 5, 1989; Ord. 85-0195 § 5, 1985; Ord. 85-0168 § 20, 1985; Ord. 85-0004 § 6, 1985; Ord. 82-0003 § 8 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.8, 1927.)
22.08.090 - I.
—  "Idle mine" means a surface mining operation as defined in Section 2727.1 of the Public Resources Code.
—  Income, Area Median. "Area median income" means the current median annual household income for Los Angeles County, as annually estimated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or as published by the California Department of Housing and Community Development.
—  Income, Low. "Low income" means an annual income for a person or a family which does not exceed 80 percent of the area median income.
—  "Income, lower" means an annual income for a household which does not exceed 80 percent of the area median income, as specified by Section 50079.5 of the California Health and Safety Code.
—  Income, Moderate. "Moderate income" means an annual income for a person or a family which does not exceed 120 percent of the area median income.
—  "Income, very low" means an annual income for a household which does not exceed 50 percent of the area median income, as specified by Section 50105 of the California Health and Safety Code.
(Ord. 93-0036 § 2, 1993: Ord. 92-0032 § 1, 1992; Ord. 86-0170 § 2, 1986; Ord. 85-0004 § 7, 1985; Ord. 82-0003 § 6 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.9, 1927.)
22.08.100 - J.
—  "Joint live and work unit" shall mean a dwelling unit comprised of both living space and work space, where either a residential use or a commercial use can be the primary use, and in which at least one resident of the living space is responsible for the commercial activity performed in the work space. The terms "living space" shall mean the area for the residential use and "working space" shall mean the area for the commercial use.
—  "Junk and salvage" means old, secondhand or scrap ferrous and nonferrous metals, paper and paper products (including roofing and tar paper), cloth and clothing, wood and wood products, manufactured rubber products, rope, manufactured plastic products, paint, manufactured clay and porcelain products, trash, and similar materials, and shall include dismantled machinery, equipment and parts. "Junk and salvage" shall also include the bailing of cardboard boxes, paper and paper cartons.
—  "Junk and salvage yard" means any premises, establishment or place of business which is maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying, selling or dismantling of junk and salvage.
(Ord. No. 2008-0035 § 1, 2008; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.10, 1927.)
22.08.110 - K.
—  "Kitchen" means any room or space used, or intended or designed to be used for cooking or the preparation of food.
(Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.11, 1927.)
22.08.120 - L.
—  "Land reclamation project" means a project established to restore otherwise unsuitable land to useful purposes through the use of fill materials such as rubbish, waste, soil and other unwanted materials. "Land reclamation project" shall include a dump or waste disposal facility.
—  "Limited secondary highway" means a highway so designated on the Highway Plan which provides access to low-density settlements, ranches and recreation areas, with a standard improvement of 64 feet of right-of-way, with two traffic lanes. The right-of-way may be increased to 80 feet for additional improvements where traffic or drainage conditions warrant.
—  Lot, Corner. "Corner lot" means a lot or parcel of land situated at the intersection of two or more parkways, highways or streets, which parkways, highways or streets have an angle of intersection measured within said lot or parcel of land of not more than 135 degrees.
—  Lot, Flag. "Flag lot" means a lot or parcel of land taking access by a strip, owner of which lot or parcel of land has fee-simple title to said strip extending from the main portion of the lot or parcel of land to the adjoining parkway, highway or street.
—  Lot, Interior. "Interior lot" means a lot or parcel of land other than a corner or flag lot.
—  Lot, Key. "Key lot" means an interior lot adjoining the rear lot line of a reversed corner lot.
—  "Lot line" means a boundary line of a lot or of a parcel of land.
—  Lot Line, Front. "Front lot line" means a line separating the front yard from the parkway, highway or street upon which the yard fronts; or, in the case of a flag lot where the front yard is oriented toward an adjoining lot, the line separating such front yard from said adjoining lot.
—  Lot Line, Rear. "Rear lot line" means a lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. For a triangular or gore-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall mean a line 10 feet to the length within the lot which is parallel to the front lot line, or parallel to the chord of a curved front lot line, and the maximum distance from the front lot line.
—  Lot Line, Side. "Side lot line" means any lot boundary line which is not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
—  Lot, Reversed Corner. "Reversed corner lot" means a corner lot, the parkway, highway or street side lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of a lot or parcel of land which adjoins the rear lot line of said lot.
—  Lot, Through. "Through lot" means a lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel parkways, highways and/or streets.
(Ord. 2004-0030 § 3, 2004; Ord. 91-0022 § 1, 1991; Ord. 85-0168 § 21, 1985; Ord. 85-0004 § 8, 1985; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.12, 1927.)
22.08.130 - M.
—  "Major highway" means a road so designated on the Highway Plan which is a heavily traveled route, requiring four or more traffic lanes and a standard right-of-way of 100 feet.
—  "Massage" and "massage services" mean and should include any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, manipulation, or stimulating the external parts of the body, with or without the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliances, with or without supplementary aids such as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar preparations.
—  "Massage parlor" means any premises where "massage" or "massage services" are given.
—  "May" is permissive.
—  "Medical marijuana dispensary" means any facility or location which distributes, transmits, gives, or otherwise provides medical marijuana to qualified patients or primary caregivers in accordance with California Health and Safety Code section 11362.5 through section 11362.83, inclusive, commonly referred to as the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 and the Medical Marijuana Program.
—  "Meteorological tower, temporary (Temp Met Tower)" means a facility consisting of a tower and related wind-measuring devices which is used solely to measure winds preliminary to construction of a non-commercial wind energy conversion system.
—  "Microwave station" means a building housing equipment necessary for the receiving, amplifying or transmitting of microwave signals, including necessary antenna systems, along a communications route or system which employs microwave frequencies assigned by the Federal Communications Commission.
—  "Mined lands" means the surface, subsurface, and groundwater of an area in which surface mining operations will be, are being, or have been conducted, including private ways and roads appurtenant to any such area, land excavations, workings, mining waste, and areas in which structures, facilities, equipment, machines, tools, or other materials on property which result from or are used in surface mining operations, are located.
—  "Minerals" means any naturally occurring chemical element or compound, or groups of elements and compounds, formed from inorganic processes and organic substances, including, but not limited to, coal, peat and bituminous rock, but excluding geothermal resources, natural gas and petroleum.
—  "Mixed use development," unless otherwise specified, shall mean a development that combines residential and commercial uses.
—  "Mobilehome" means a domicile transportable in one or more sections, designed and equipped to contain not more than two dwelling units, to be used with or without a permanent foundation system. "Mobilehome" does not include a recreational vehicle.
—  "Mobilehome park" means any area or tract of land where two or more sites are rented or leased, or held out for rent or lease, to accommodate mobilehomes, as defined in this Title 22, and/or factory-built houses as defined in the Health and Safety Code of the state, which bear an insignia of approval pursuant to the Health and Safety Code of the state, used for human habitation. "Mobilehome park" also includes:
A.
A tract of land owned by a single individual or entity, and any form of ownership in which the land and/or the facilities are owned in common by the residents of such park, including a division of land for mobilehome purposes, as defined in Title 21 of this code, or a condominium as defined in the Civil Code of the state; and
B.
Facilities established under the terms "trailer court" and "trailer park."
—  "Motel" means a group of attached or detached buildings containing guest rooms or dwelling units, some or all of which have a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the building with garage attached or automobile parking space conveniently located on the lot or parcel of land, and which is designed, used or intended to be used wholly or in part for the accommodation of automobile transients. Motels include auto courts, motor lodges and tourist courts.
(Ord. 2008-0035 § 2, 2008; Ord. 2006-0032 § 1, 2006; Ord. 2002-0043 § 1, 2002; Ord. 97-0069 § 1, 1997; Ord. 96-0004 § 4, 1996; Ord. 93-0065 § 1 1993: Ord. 85-0168 § 22, 1985; Ord. 84-0001 § 1, 1984; Ord. 82-0130 § 7, 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.13, 1927.)
22.08.140 - N.
—  "National recreation area" means any land or water area designated by an act of Congress as an area for public outdoor recreational use and enjoyment, which area is managed either by a relevant federal agency(ies), a State in which such area is located, or a relevant local agency(ies) within such State, or any combination thereof.
—  "Nightclub" means any bar, cocktail lounge or restaurant, other than a cabaret, wherein live entertainment is provided and an occupant load of at least 200 people is established.
—  "Nonconforming building or structure" means any building or structure that was lawfully established and in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time the ordinance codified in this Title 22 or any amendment thereto became effective, but which, due to the application of this Title 22 or any amendment thereto, no longer complies with all the applicable regulations and standards of development in the zone in which it is located. "Nonconforming building or structure" does not include a building or structure located in the coastal zone which is consistent with the provisions of this Title 22 with the exception of obtaining a coastal development permit.
—  "Nonconforming use" means any use of land or property that was lawfully established and in compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws at the time the ordinance codified in Title 22, or any amendment thereto, became effective, but which, due to the application of this title or any amendment thereto is a use not listed as permitted, accessory, director's review, or subject to permit in the zone in which it is located. "Nonconforming use" shall also include:
A.
Uses reclassified from permitted to director's review or subject to permit in the same zone; and
B.
Uses made nonconforming by the addition of a development standard previously not required for such use in the same zoning classification, where such added standard is specified to be a condition of use.
"Nonconforming use" does not include a use located in the coastal zone which is consistent with the provisions of this Title 22 with the exception of obtaining a coastal development permit.
—  "Nudist camp" means any place where three or more persons not all members of the same family congregate, assemble, associate or engage in any activity while without clothing or covering or with partial clothing or covering but with any pubic area or any portion of the crease of the buttocks exposed in the presence of others or of each other, other than an occasional gathering in, or on the premises of a private home. "Nudist camp" includes growth center.
(Ord. 2010-0011 § 1, 2010; Ord. 89-0152 § 6, 1989; Ord. 81-0005 § 2, 1981; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.14, 1927.)
22.08.150 - O.
—  "Oak tree" means Valley Oak (Quercus iobata), Coast Live Oak (Quercus agrifola) or any other tree of the oak genus.
—  "Oath" includes affirmation.
—  "Occupant load" means the total number of persons that may occupy a building or structure, or portion thereof, at any one time as provided by Chapter 33 of the Building Code, set out in Title 26 of this code.
—  "Ordinance" means an ordinance of the county of Los Angeles.
—  "Outdoor dining" means any restaurant, or other eating establishment, including food take-out, where food or beverage are served, on private property, and where there is not a roof and walls on all sides.
—  Outdoor Festival.
A.
"Outdoor festival" means any music festival, dance festival, "rock festival" or similar musical activity to which both of the following apply:
1.
Attendance by more than 500 persons is desired or may reasonably be expected; and
2.
The festival will be held at any place other than in a permanent building or permanent installation which has been constructed for the purpose of/or is so constructed that it can be used for conducting such activities.
B.
It is immaterial whether music will be provided by paid or professional, or amateur performers or by prerecorded means; or whether admission is to be charged.
—  "Outside display" means the placement of goods, equipment, merchandise or exhibits at a location visible to the public view, other than within a building.
—  "Outside storage" means the storage of goods, equipment or materials outside of a building for any purpose other than outside display.
—  "Overburden" means soil, rock or other materials that lie above a natural mineral deposit, or in between mineral deposits, before or after their removal by surface mining operations.
(Ord. 84-0161 § 1, 1984; Ord. 82-0168 § 1 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.15, 1927.)
22.08.160 - P.
—  "Parcel of land" means a contiguous quantity of land, owned by or recorded as the property of the same claimant or person, or in the possession of the same claimant or person pursuant to a recorded lease with a term of not less than 20 years.
—  "Parking lots" or "parking buildings" means readily accessible areas within structures or surface parking areas, exclusive of aisles, driveways, ramps and columns, maintained exclusively for the parking of vehicles, not including areas for the parking or storage of commercial vehicles with registered net weights in excess of 5,600 pounds.
—  "Parkway" means a road so designated on the highway plan, having park-like features, with a right-of-way of not less than 80 feet.
—  "Pedestrian paseo" means a landscaped walkway accessible to the public, located outside of a public right-of-way or private roadway, where motorized vehicles are prohibited. A pedestrian paseo shall be a minimum of five feet in width, provide amenities such as appropriate lighting, benches, and water features, and be designed to maximize visibility of the paseo from public view points.
—  "Permanent cosmetics" means the application of pigments to or under the human skin for the purpose of permanently changing the color or other appearance of the skin. "Permanent cosmetics" shall include, but is not limited to, the application of permanent eyeliner, eye shadow or lip color. Nothing in this definition shall be deemed to restrict the activities of any licensed physician or surgeon.
—  "Permanent cosmetics parlor" means any place of business where permanent cosmetics are applied.
—  "Person" means any individual, firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this and any other county, city and county, municipality, district or other political subdivision, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
—  "Pest control operator" means a person who engages in the business of eradicating or controlling any pest which is or is liable to be dangerous or detrimental to agriculture by the application of any substance, method or device, or who engages in the business of preventing, destroying, repel ling, mitigating or correcting any disorder of plants by the same means, or both. "Pest control operator" does not include a person engaged in the business of termite eradication or control.
—  Pig, Pygmy. "Pygmy pig" means a pig or hog classified as Sus scrofa jubatus Müller or Sus scrofa (cristatus) vittutus, and commonly referred to as a pot-bellied pig, pygmy pig or mini-pig, which stands no higher than 20 inches at the shoulder, and is no longer than 40 inches from the tip of the head to the end of the buttocks, and weighs no more than 120 pounds.
—  Plot Plan or Plan. Whenever this Title 22 refers to a "plot plan" or "plan," it shall be construed to mean a site plan.
—  "Portable sign" means a freestanding sign not permanently affixed, anchored or secured to either the ground or a structure on the premises it occupies.
—  "Principal use" means a primary or dominant use established, or pro posed to be established, on a lot or parcel of land.
—  "Property line" means the line between that portion of a limited secondary highway or street cross-section designated with an asterisk (*) and the portion thereof not so designated as shown in Sections 21.24.065 and 21.24.090 of Title 21 of this code, Subdivisions.
—  "Pro shop" means an incidental commercial use operated in conjunction with, and on the same premises as a principal recreational use, which offers for retail sale sporting equipment and supplies customarily utilized in participating in such recreational activity. "Pro shop" does not include a general sporting goods store.
—  "Public utility service center" means any buildings or premises used for the administration of public utility repair, maintenance and installation crews, including parking for vehicles not to exceed two tons rated capacity, but not including warehouses or storage yards.
—  "Public utility service yard" means any buildings or premises used for the office, warehouse, storage yard or maintenance garage of a public utility, including microwave repeater stations when incorporated as a part of the service yard use.
(Ord. 2015-0042 § 2, 2015; Ord. 99-0013 § 2, 1999; Ord. 92-0121 § 1, 1992; Ord. 87-0182 § 1, 1987; Ord. 85-0168 § 23, 1985; Ord. 81-0005 § 3, 1981; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.16, 1927.)
22.08.170 - Q.
(Reserved)
(Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.17, 1927.)
22.08.180 - R.
—  "Reclamation of mined lands" means the combined process of land treatment that minimizes water degradation, air pollution, damage to aquatic or wildlife habitat, flooding, erosion and other adverse effects from surface mining operations, including adverse surface effects incidental to underground mines, so that mined lands are reclaimed to a usable condition which is readily adaptable for alternate land uses and create no danger to public health and safety. The process may extend to affected lands surrounding mined lands, and may require backfilling, grading, resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction, stabilization or other such measures.
—  "Reclamation plan" means a plan for reclaiming the lands affected by surface mining operations conducted after January 1, 1976.
—  "Recreational trailer park" means any area or tract of land, within an area zoned for recreational use, where one or more lots are rented or leased, or held out for rent or lease to owners or users of recreational vehicles or tents, and which is occupied for temporary purposes.
—  "Recreational vehicle" means a motorhome, travel trailer, truck camper or camping trailer, with or without motive power, designed for human habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy, with a living area less than 220 square feet, excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, bath and toilet rooms.
—  Recreation Club, Commercial. "Commercial recreation club" means a commercial enterprise offering the use of outdoor recreational facilities to the public.
—  Recreation Club, Private. "Private recreation club" means an association of persons who are bona fide members, paying regular dues, and organized to provide outdoor recreational facilities for members and their guests, but not including an association organized primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial enterprise.
—  Recreation Facilities, Neighborhood. "Neighborhood recreation facilities" means outdoor recreation facilities established by an association of persons who are bona fide members and operate as a nonprofit corporation to provide outdoor recreation facilities for residents in the immediate vicinity and their guests. Such facilities may include a clubhouse, changing rooms and similar subordinate facilities in conjunction with the outdoor recreation activity, but shall not include a restaurant, bar or pro shop.
—  "Rehabilitation facility, small wild animals" means a facility for the temporary care of sick, injured, and/or orphaned wild animals until such animals are nursed back to health and can be returned to their native habitat.
—  Renovation, Exterior Facade. "Exterior facade renovation" means a resurfacing of an existing building frontage so that the facade and signs are integrated into one unit.
—  Required Area. As used in Title 22 of this code, "required area" means:
A.
The area of a lot which is shown as a part of a subdivision for purposes of sale, recorded as a final map or filed as a record of Survey Map approved as provided in the Subdivision Map Act or as provided in the ordinance set out at Title 21 of this code, Subdivisions, except that where a parcel which otherwise would have been shown as one lot, is divided into two or more lots because of a city boundary line or a line between land the title to which was registered under the Land Title Law (Torrens Title) and land the title to which was not so registered, in which case "required area" means the area of such parcel; or
B.
The area of a lot or parcel of land, the right of possession of which, by virtue of a deed duly recorded, or by a recorded contract of sale, is vested in a person who neither owns nor has a right of possession of any contiguous parcel of property; provided, that the deed or contract of sale by which such right of possession was separated has been recorded prior to the adoption by the board of supervisors of the ordinance which imposes the area requirements upon such lot or parcel of land; or
C.
1.
Where a number follows the zoning symbol and neither subsection A nor B of this section applies:
a.
A gross area, including that portion, if any, subject to a highway easement or other public or private easement where the owner of the servient tenement does not have the right to use the entire surface, of the number of acres shown by such number if such number is less than 100, provided that the portion of the lot or parcel of land not subject to any such easement shall have an area not less than 40,000 square feet, if the parcel was established on or after September 22, 1967, or not less than 32,000 square feet if the parcel was established before September 22, 1967;
b.
A net area of the number of square feet shown by such number is greater than 100;
2.
Required area shall not include the access strip of a flag lot extending from the main portion of the lot or parcel of land to the adjoining parkway, highway or street;
D.
Where no number follows the zoning symbol and neither subsection A nor B of this section applies, the required area is:
1.
In Zones A-2-H and C-R, the same as in Zone C-R-5,
2.
In Zones D-2 and A-C, the same as in Zone D-2-1,
3.
In Zone A-2, the same as in Zone A-2-10,000,
a.
In Zones R-1, R-2, R-3-( )U, R-4-( )U, R-A, RPD, A-1, R-R, CPD, and M-3, the same as in Zone R1-5000;
E.
A lot shown as such on a subdivision for the purpose of lease only does not have the required area unless it complies with subsection B, C or D of this section.
—  Residence, Senior Citizen. "Senior citizen residence" means an attached or detached second dwelling unit, occupied by not more than two persons, one of whom is either over 62 years of age or is a person with a disability, as defined in this title.
—  Residence, Single-family. "Single-family residence" means a building containing one dwelling unit, or a mobilehome comprising one dwelling unit manufactured and certified under the National Mobilehome Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 on a permanent foundation system approved by the county engineer.
—  Residence, Two-family. "Two-family residence" means a building containing two dwelling units, other than a single-family residence with an attached "second unit," as defined in Section 22.08.190.
—  "Resoiling" means that process of artificially building or reconstructing a soil profile.
—  "Road" means an open way used for the passage of vehicles, and includes alleys, streets and highways.
—  "Road commissioner" means the road commissioner of the county of Los Angeles.
—  Room, Guest. "Guest room" means one which is designed, used or intended to be used as temporary sleeping accommodations for any person, and which does not contain a bar sink and/or gas, electrical or water outlets designed, used or intended to be used for cooking facilities except as otherwise specifically provided by this title.
—  Room, Habitable. "Habitable room" means an enclosing subdivision in a building commonly used for sleeping, living, cooking or dining purposes, excluding closets, pantries, bath or toilet rooms, service rooms, connecting corridors, laundries, unfinished attics, foyers, storage space, cellars, utility rooms, and similar spaces. For purposes of applying parking space requirements:
A.
If any of the above-mentioned rooms or spaces equals or exceeds 90 square feet of superficial floor area and is capable of being used for living or sleeping purposes, such room or space shall be considered a habitable room; or
B.
If any room or space equals or exceeds 150 square feet of superficial floor area and is so designed to be capable of being used for both cooking and living, living and sleeping, or cooking and sleeping purposes, such room or space shall be considered as two habitable rooms, except in a bachelor or efficiency apartment. Superficial floor area shall be measured as clear floor space, exclusive of fixed or built-in cabinets or appliances.
—  "Rooming house" or "boarding house" means a lodging house, or other building or structure maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place where sleeping or rooming accommodations are furnished to the whole or any part of the public, whether with or without meals. "Rooming house" includes fraternity and sorority houses.
(Ord. 2006-0019 § 1, 2006; Ord. 2004-0012 § 1, 2004; Ord. 92-0079 § 2, 1992; Ord. 85-0168 § 24, 1985; Ord. 83-0006 § 1, 1983; Ord. 82-0130 § 1, 1982; Ord. 82-0002 § 1, 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 1 § 120.18, 1927.)
22.08.190 - S.
—  "Safety" means and includes a water supply for fire protection which complies with the requirements of the county Water Ordinance set out at Division 1 of Title 20 of this code.
—  "Scenic highway" means a highway within the state scenic highway system of the state of California, or a scenic drive shown on the Los Angeles County plan of regional recreation areas, an amendment of the recreation element of the master plan (general plan), as amended July 29, 1965, and shall include any highway subsequently adopted as a part of the scenic highway element of the general plan.
—  "Scrap metal processing yard" means any establishment or place of business which is maintained, used or operated solely for the processing and preparing of scrap metals for remelting by steel mills and foundries.
—  "Sea" means the Pacific Ocean and all harbors, bays, channels, estuaries, salt marshes, sloughs and other areas subject to tidal action through any connection with the Pacific Ocean, excluding non-estuarine rivers, streams, creeks and flood control and drainage channels.
—  "SEATAC" means the significant ecological area technical advisory committee.
—  "Second unit" means a dwelling unit authorized by Part 16 of Chapter 22.52 that is either attached to or located on the same lot or parcel of land as an existing single-family residence. "Second unit" includes a manufactured home, as defined in section 18007 of the California Health and Safety Code, and an efficiency living unit, as described in Section 11.20.370 of this code.
—  "Secondary highway" means a highway so designated on the Highway Plan, planned to serve an areawide or countywide transportation function, normally with four moving lanes of traffic on 80 feet of right-of-way, but which may have only two lanes of moving traffic in nonurban areas.
—  "Secondhand store" means a retail store established to collect and sell used household goods, clothing, and/or merchandise that are donated to the store. Secondhand store shall not include an antique shop, pawnshop, yard sale or junk and salvage use, or use involving the sale of used vehicles or vehicle parts. To the extent that a secondhand store sells tangible personal property, as defined in California Business and Professions Code ("B&PC") section 21627, the secondhand store must comply with all applicable requirements of the B&PC governing secondhand goods, including applicable registration and reporting requirements.
—  "Section" means a section of the ordinance codified in this Title 22, unless some other ordinance or statute is mentioned.
—  "Self-service storage facility" means any real property designed and used for the renting or leasing of individual storage spaces to tenants who have access to such spaces for the purpose of storing personal property.
—  "Senior citizens and handicapped persons housing development" means a multiple-family housing development maintained for the occupancy of the elderly in which not more than 10 percent of the occupants are under 62 years of age, or for handicapped persons whose disabilities seriously restrict operation of a motor vehicle. (The regional planning commission in recommending this definition on August 17, 1977 also took action to state that it shall be the commission's policy to insure that some agency of government, other than the commission or department of regional planning, is exercising entry or occupancy controls assuring that each unit in an approved senior citizen and handicapped housing development is in fact occupied by an eligible individual or family.)
—  "Sensitive environmental resource area" means:
A.
Any of the following areas designated on the sensitive environmental resources map of the Malibu Land Use Plan: environmentally sensitive habitat areas, disturbed sensitive resources, significant watersheds, significant oak woodlands, wildlife migration corridors and the Malibu/Cold Creek resource management area;
B.
All property within 200 feet of an environmentally sensitive habitat area.
—  "Shade plan" means a landscape plan that depicts and quantifies the amount of tree shade for a project site as set forth in Section 22.52.2130.B.
—  "Shall" is mandatory.
—  "Sign" means any name, figure, character, outline, spectacle, display, delineation, announcement, advertising, billboard, signboard, device, appliance, or any other thing of similar nature to attract attention outdoors or on the face, wall or window of any building, and shall include all parts, portions, units and materials composing the same, together with the frame, background and support of anchorage therefor, as the case may be.
—  "Sign area" means the entire surface area, excluding all support structures, of a single-faced sign, or the largest face of a sign having two or more faces.
—  Sign Area, Total. "Total sign area" means the sum of the surface areas, excluding all support structures, of all faces of a sign.
—  Sign, Awning or Entrance Canopy. "Awning or entrance canopy sign" means any sign affixed to an awning or removable canopy not permanently attached to or built as part of a building. Such signs shall be considered the same as a projecting sign for purposes of regulation.
—  Sign, Building Identification. "Building identification sign" means a sign which contains no advertising matter other than the name and/or trademark and/or address of the building to which it is affixed or of the occupant located therein.
—  Sign, Bulletin or Special Event. "Bulletin or special event sign" means a changeable copy sign on which bulletins, notices, messages or displays are placed.
—  Sign, Business. "Business sign" means a sign directing attention to the principal business, profession or industry located upon the premises upon which the sign is displayed, to type of products sold, manufactured or assembled, or to services or entertainment offered on said premises.
—  Sign, Changeable Copy. "Changeable copy sign" means a sign which is characterized by manually changeable copy, letters, symbols or numerals.
—  Sign, Civic Organization. "Civic organization sign" means a sign which contains the names of, or any other information regarding civic, fraternal or religious organizations located within an unincorporated community or city, but which contains no other advertising matter.
—  Sign, Construction. "Construction sign" means a temporary sign denoting the architects, engineers, owners, lenders, contractors, future tenants and others associated with a construction project, but which contains no other advertising matter.
—  Sign, Directional and/or Informational. "Directional and/or informational sign" means a sign which indicates the route to, direction of or location of a given goal, or which provides regulatory or service information of a nonadvertising character.
—  Sign, Face. "Face sign" means that portion of a sign intended to be viewed from one direction at one time.
—  Sign, Flashing or Scintillating. "Flashing or scintillating sign" means any sign which, by method or manner of illumination, flashes on or off, winks or blinks with varying light intensity, shows motion, or creates the illusion of motion, or revolves in a manner to create the illusion of being on or off.
—  Sign, Freestanding. "Freestanding sign" means a sign which is placed on the ground or has as its primary structural support one or more columns, poles, uprights or braces in or upon the ground. "Freestanding sign" shall include ground, monument and pole signs.
—  Sign, Freeway-oriented. "Freeway-oriented sign" means a sign oriented to be viewed primarily from an adjacent freeway which identifies a business engaged in the provision of food, lodging or motor vehicle fuel, and which is primarily dependent upon said freeway.
—  Sign, Fuel Pricing. "Fuel pricing sign" means a sign indicating, and limited to, the brand or trade name, method of sale, grade designation and price per gallon of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel offered for sale on the business premises, and such other information as may be required by county ordinance or state law.
—  Sign, Incidental Business. "Incidental business sign" means a business sign indicating credit cards accepted, trading stamps offered, trade affiliations, and similar matters.
—  Sign, Lighted. "Lighted sign" means a sign which is illuminated by any source, whether internal, external or indirect.
—  Sign, Marquee. "Marquee sign" means any sign painted on or affixed to the perimeter or border of a permanently roofed structure constructed as part of a building and protruding over public or private sidewalks or rights-of way. Such signs shall be considered wall signs for purposes of regulation.
—  Sign, Outdoor Advertising. "Outdoor advertising sign" means any sign directing public attention to a business, profession, product or service that is not a primary business, profession, product or service which is sold, manufactured, conducted or offered on the premises where such sign is erected or maintained. "Outdoor advertising sign" shall include a portable outdoor advertising sign and billboard, but shall not include a public transportation sign.
—  Sign, Portable. "Portable sign" means a freestanding sign which is not permanently affixed, anchored or secured to either the ground or a structure on the premises it is intended to occupy.
—  Sign, Projecting. "Projecting sign" means a sign which is affixed to and wholly supported by an exterior wall of a building or structure other than a wall sign.
—  Sign, Public Transportation. "Public transportation sign" means any incidental sign that is placed on a structure, either a portable bench or shelter, located on a public alley, road, street, parkway or highway, if the purpose of the structure is to facilitate the use of public transportation and promote the safety, comfort and convenience of public transit patrons.
—  Sign, Real Estate. "Real estate sign" means a temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premises on which the sign is located.
—  Sign, Revolving. "Revolving sign" means a sign or any portion thereof which rotates, moves or appears to move in some manner by mechanical, electrical, natural or other means.
—  Sign, Roof. "Roof sign" means any sign erected upon and wholly supported by the roof of any building or structure. "Roof sign" shall not include a wall sign affixed to the roof eaves or that portion of an actual or false roof varying less than 45 degrees from a vertical plane as provided by this Title 22.
—  "Sign structure" means a structure existing, erected or maintained to serve exclusively as a stand, frame or background for the support or display of signs.
—  Sign, Subdivision Entry. "Subdivision entry sign" means a temporary sign which provides necessary travel directions to and within a subdivision offered for sale or lease for the first time, but which contains no other advertising matter.
—  Sign, Subdivision Sales. "Subdivision sales sign" means a temporary sign which contains the name of, and information relating to, a subdivision being offered for sale or lease for the first time.
—  Sign, Subdivision Special-Feature. "Subdivision special-feature sign" means a temporary sign which contains a description of the features and related information pertaining to a model home complex in a subdivision offered for sale or lease for the first time.
—  Sign, Temporary Window. "Temporary window sign" means any sign printed on a window or constructed of paper, cloth, canvas or other similar lightweight material, with or without frames, and affixed to the interior side of a window and displayed so as to call to the attention of persons outside the building a sale of merchandise or a change in the status of the business.
—  Sign, Under-Marquee. "Under-marquee sign" means any sign suspended from the underside of a permanently roofed structure constructed as part of a building and protruding over public or private sidewalks or rights-of-way. Such signs shall be considered the same as a projecting sign for purpose of regulating area and location.
—  Sign, Wall or Wall-mounted. "Wall sign" or "wall-mounted sign" means a sign, other than a roof sign, affixed to and wholly supported by a building in such a manner that its exposed face is approximately parallel to the plane of said building and is not projecting more than 18 inches from the building face or from a permanent roofed structure projecting therefrom.
—  "Significant ecological area" means:
A.
Significant ecological areas/habitat management areas designated on the special management areas map of the general plan.
B.
Environmentally sensitive habitat areas, sensitive environmental resource areas, and rare plant habitat areas, identified in the Santa Catalina Island Local Coastal Program depicting any area in which plant or animal life or their habitats are either rare or especially valuable because of their special nature or role in an ecosystem and which could be easily disturbed or degraded by human activities and developments.
—  Small Family Home, Children. "Children small family home" means any residential facility in the licensee's family residence providing 24-hour-a-day care for six or fewer children who are mentally disordered, developmentally disabled or physically handicapped and who require special care and supervision as a result of such disabilities, as defined and licensed under the regulations of the state of California.
—  "Solid fill" means any noncombustible materials, insoluble in water, such as soil, rock, sand or gravel, that can be used for grading land or filling depressions.
—  "Solid fill project" means any operation on a parcel of land where more than 1,000 cubic yards of solid fill materials are deposited for any purpose, including grading or reclaiming of land.
—  Special Use Permit. Whenever this Title 22, or any case granted thereunder, refers to a "special permit" or a "special use permit," it shall be construed to mean a conditional use permit.
—  "Stand" means a structure for the display and sale of products with no space for customers within the structure itself.
—  "Station" means the stopping place in a transportation system designed or intended to be used for the receiving or discharging of passengers and cargo, but shall not provide for the storage of the conveyance vehicle and shall not include any appurtenant facilities other than a shelter and ticketing facilities for passengers. Stations include train stations, bus stations, and similar transit stations.
—  "Story" is that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the roof above. "Story" includes a basement but not a cellar.
—  "Street" means a public or private right-of-way, other than a highway or alley, whose function is to carry vehicular traffic and/or provide vehicular access to abutting property.
—  "Strike and preparation days" means activities required to make superficial alterations as specified in the script prior to movie on-location filming and following filming, to restore such location to its original condition. Such alterations may include placement of temporary architectural features, alterations in landscaping, changes in furniture or other decorative elements, placement of temporary lighting equipment and similar activities. "Strike and preparation days" shall not include time periods when cameras and actors are present and/or filming is occurring, nor activities requiring more than 10 persons or two trucks having a rated capacity exceeding two tons.
—  "Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires a fixed location on the ground, or is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
—  Suite, Guest. "Guest suite" means a combination of two or more guest rooms.
—  "Surface mining operations" means all or any part of the process involved in the mining of minerals on mined lands by removing overburden and mining directly from the mineral deposits, open-pit mining of minerals naturally exposed, mining by the auger method, dredging and quarrying, or surface work incident to an underground mine. Surface mining operations shall include but are not limited to:
A.
In-place distillation, retorting or leaching;
B.
The production and disposal of mining waste;
C.
Prospecting and exploratory activities;
D.
The removal of overburden.
—  "Swap meet" means any event where new and secondhand goods are offered or displayed for sale or exchange and at least one of the following:
1.
A fee is charged for the privilege of offering or displaying new and secondhand goods for sale or exchange;
2.
A fee is charged to prospective buyers for admission to the area where new and secondhand goods are offered or displayed for sale or exchange.
(Ord. 2016-0016 § 4, 2016; Ord. 2013-0006 § 1, 2013; Ord. 2012-0016 § 1, 2012; Ord. 2004-0030 § 4, 2004; Ord. 2004-0016 § 1, 2004; Ord. 2004-0012 § 2, 2004; Ord. 96-0004 § 5, 1996; Ord. 92-0037 §§ 3, 4, 1992; Ord. 91-0022 § 2, 1991; Ord. 89-0152 § 7, 1989; Ord. 89-0136 § 1, 1989; Ord. 85-0168 § 25, 1985; Ord. 85-0004 § 9, 1985; Ord. 84-0236 § 2, 1984; Ord. 83-0028 § 2, 1983; Ord. 83-0007 § 1, 1983; Ord. 82-0024 § 2, 1982; Ord. 82-0003 § 8 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.19, 1927.)
22.08.200 - T.
—  "Tasting room" means an area or facility used for the sale and sampling of alcoholic beverages that is operated in conjunction with a winery, where the sale and sampling area or facility is located on the same lot or parcel of land as the winery.
—  "Tasting room, remote" means an area or facility used for the sale and sampling of alcoholic beverages that is operated in conjunction with a separate alcoholic beverage production facility licensed under a Type 02 license issued by the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, where the sale and sampling facility is located on a different lot or parcel of land than the production facility.
—  "Tattooing" means to insert pigment under the surface of the human skin by pricking with a needle or otherwise to produce an indelible mark or figure visible through the skin. Nothing in this definition shall be deemed to restrict the activities of any licensed physician or surgeon.
—  "Tattoo parlor" means any place of business where tattooing occurs.
—  "Telephone repeater station" means a building used for housing amplifying equipment along aerial or underground telephone cable routes.
—  "Terminal" means any facility designed or intended to be used for the receiving or discharging of passengers or cargo and providing for the temporary or permanent storage of the conveyance vehicle. Terminals include train terminals, airports, bus terminals, freight terminals, harbor terminals, or any combination of the above commonly referred to as multipurpose terminals.
—  "Theater" means an enclosed building used for public assembly and/or entertainment, including sports events, theatrical performances, concerts and recitals, circuses, stock shows and conventions. "Theater" shall include auditorium.
—  "Townhouse" means a single-family dwelling unit sharing a common wall with other townhouses on one or two sides and capable of being placed on a separate lot or parcel of land.
—  "Transit oriented district" (TOD) means a mixed-use community within an approximately one-quarter to one-half mile radius of a significant transit facility station. Transit oriented districts are established to encourage a mix of residential, retail, office, open space, and public uses in close proximity to each other in order to contribute to a vibrant, safe, and revitalized walkable environment. The transit oriented district land use provisions and design standards encourage convenient travel by transit, bicycle, or foot by both residents and employees. Transit oriented districts also promote the efficient use of land for the mutual reinforcement of private development and public investments in the transit system.
—  "Travel trailer park" means any area or tract of land or a separate designated section within a mobilehome park where one or more lots are rented or leased or held out for rent or lease to owners or users of recreational vehicles used for travel or recreational purposes.
—  "Tree species list" means the list of tree species prepared and maintained pursuant to Section 22.52.2120.B.
(Ord. 2016-0016 § 5, 2016; Ord. 2010-0011 § 2, 2010; Ord. 2005-0011 § 1, 2005: Ord. 99-0057 § 1, 1999; Ord. 99-0013 § 3, 1999; Ord. 96-0004 § 6, 1996; Ord. 82-0003 § 8 (part), 1982; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.20, 1927.)
22.08.210 - U.
—  "Uncovered parking area" means, for the purpose of implementing Part 20 of Chapter 22.52 - Tree Planting Requirements, the uncovered impervious surface areas of a parking lot that includes parking stalls, pedestrian loading areas, driveways within the property line, areas for vehicular maneuvering, and walkways within the parking lot, but excludes areas covered by solar panels or truck loading areas, and display, sales, service and vehicle storage areas associated with uses such as automobile dealerships.
—  "Utility-scale solar energy facility, ground-mounted" means a device or devices affixed to the ground, and any accessory equipment or structures, which converts solar energy into electrical or thermal energy primarily for off-site use. Such facility shall not use concentrated solar thermal collectors, which use lenses or mirrors to focus or reflect a large area of sunlight onto a small area.
—  "Use" means and includes construction, establishment, maintenance, alteration, moving onto, enlargement, and occupation. Wherever this title prohibits the "use" of any premises for any purposes, such premises and any building, structure, or improvement on such premises shall not be used, occupied, altered, or improved for such purpose, and no building, structure, or improvement on such premises shall be erected, constructed, established, maintained, allowed to remain, altered, moved onto, or enlarged which is designed, arranged, or intended to be occupied or used for such purpose.
(Ord. 2016-0016 § 6, 2016; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.21, 1927.)
22.08.220 - V.
—  "Value-added farm product" means any product processed from a farm product, such as baked goods, jams, and jellies, by a certified producer.
—  Vehicle, Inoperative. "Inoperative vehicle," as used in this title, means any motor vehicle which cannot be operated lawfully on a public street or highway within this state for any reason other than the lack of current vehicle registration, or which cannot be moved under its own power.
—  Veterinary Clinic, Small Animal. "Small animal veterinary clinic" means any facility providing medical or surgical treatment, clipping, bathing, and similar services to dogs, cats and other small animals, but excluding boarding or the keeping of animals on the premises other than those requiring emergency treatment or those recovering from anesthetic.
(Ord. 2013-0001 § 15, 2013; Ord. 91-0065 § 2, 1991; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.22, 1927.)
22.08.230 - W.
—  "Warehouse" means any building located in an industrial zone that is utilized at least 80 percent for warehousing. This definition shall not apply to self-service storage facilities.
—  "Waste disposal facility" means any dump, transfer station, land reclamation project, incinerator except household incinerators and wood refuse to be burned in a suitable furnace, or other similar site or facility which is used or intended to be used for the transfer, salvage or disposal of rubbish, garbage or industrial waste.
—  "Water appeals board" means the water appeals board created by the ordinance set out at Division 1 of Title 20 of this code.
—  "Water well" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.38.120 of Title 11 (Health and Safety) of the Los Angeles County Code and comprises any drilled, excavated, jetted, or otherwise constructed excavation which is used or intended to be used to extract water from or inject water into the underground for any purpose or to observe or test underground waters, but does not include:
A.
Saltwater wells;
B.
Wells under the jurisdiction of the state of California, Division of Oil and Gas, except those wells converted to use as water wells; or
C.
Wells used for the purpose of dewatering during construction, or stabilizing hillsides, or earth embankments.
—  "Water well, abandoned" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.38.010 of Title 11 (Health and Safety) of the Los Angeles County Code and comprises a nonoperating well which is not maintained in conformity with Section 11.38.290 of said Title 11.
—  "Water well, shared" means a single water well, with its related tanks, pumps, and pipes, that provides potable water for up to four dwelling units, which dwelling units are located on the lot that contains the well and/or on any adjoining lot, in any combination.
—  "Wetland" means land within the coastal zone which may be covered periodically or permanently with shallow water and includes saltwater marshes, freshwater marshes, open or closed brackish water marshes, swamps, mudflats and fens.
—  "Wheel stop" means a physical barrier sufficient in size to prevent the movement of automobiles or other vehicles over or past such barrier.
—  "Wild animal" means any wild, exotic, dangerous or nondomestic animal, including but not limited to mammals, fowl, fish or reptiles.
—  "Wind energy conversion system, non-commercial (WECS-N)" means a facility consisting of a tower, wind turbine generator with blades, guy wires and anchors, and associated control and conversion electronic equipment to convert wind movement into electricity, with a rated capacity of not more than 50 kW; and that is incidental and subordinate to another use on the same parcel. A facility shall be considered a WECS-N only if it supplies electrical power solely for on-site use, except that when a parcel on which a WECS-N is installed also receives electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical power generated by the WECS-N and not presently needed for on-site use may be used by the utility company in exchange for a reduction in the cost of electrical power supplied by that company to the parcel for on-site use, as long as no net revenue is produced by such excess electrical power.
—  "Wineries" means facilities used for processing grapes or other agricultural products into wine, including mobile bottling or crushing facilities, operated under a Type 02 license issued by the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, where processing involves the fermentation, crushing, bottling, testing, or aging of wine.
—  "Writing" means and includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required or authorized by this Title 22, it shall be made in writing in the English language unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
(Ord. 2010-0011 § 3, 2010; Ord. 2005-0055 § 1, 2005: Ord. 2002-0043 § 2, 2002; Ord. 2000-0056 § 1, 2000: Ord. 89-0152 § 8, 1989; Ord. 89-0136 § 2, 1989; Ord. 83-0161 § 3, 1984; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.23, 1927.)
22.08.240 - Y.
—  "Yard" means an open space on the same lot or parcel of land, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise permitted by this Title 22.
—  Yard, Front. "Front yard" means a yard extending across the full width of the lot or parcel of land. The depth of a required front yard shall be a specified horizontal distance between the highway line of the parkway, highway or street on which the property fronts, and a line parallel thereto on the lot or parcel of land, except as otherwise provided for a flag lot in Section 22.48.050. On corner lots, the front yard shall be located across the narrower frontage of the lot. A yard shall not be deemed a front yard if there is no right of access of any kind, pedestrian or vehicular, from the adjoining parkway, highway or street, except in Zones C-H or C-1.
—  Yard, Rear. "Rear yard" means a yard extending across the full width of the lot or parcel of land. The depth of the required rear yard shall be a specified horizontal distance between the rear lot line or the highway line of an abutting alley and a line parallel thereto on the lot or parcel of land.
—  Yard, Side, Corner. "Corner side yard" means a yard bounded by an alley, highway or street, extending from the required front yard, or the highway line on which the property fronts where no front yard is required, to the required rear yard or to the rear lot line where no rear yard is required. The width of such required side yard shall be a specified horizontal distance between the highway line of the alley, highway or street on which the property sides, and a line parallel thereto on the lot or parcel of land.
—  Yard, Side, Interior. "Interior side yard" means a yard extending from the required front yard, or the highway line on which the property fronts where no front yard is required, to the required rear yard or to the rear lot line where no rear yard is required on other than a corner side yard. The width of a required interior side yard shall be a specified horizontal distance between each such side lot line parallel thereto on the lot or parcel of land.
—  "Youth hostel" means a building consisting of guestrooms, dormitories, kitchen, dining room, assembly room, and/or other habitable rooms providing supervised overnight accommodations for the temporary use of travelers, under the auspices of a nonprofit organization.
(Ord. 89-0152 § 9, 1989; Ord. 85-0168 § 26, 1985; Ord. 1494 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 120.25, 1927.)
22.08.250 - Z.
—  "Zip-line" means a transport ride for persons where a cable is suspended above an incline to which a pulley and harness are attached to the person riding the cable.
(Ord. 2015-0020 § 2, 2015.)
